
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74445 ***






THE ETON COLLEGE HUNT.

[Illustration: T. C. GOULDSMITH (_Master_ 1921-22).]




                                   THE
                            ETON COLLEGE HUNT

                           A SHORT HISTORY _of_
                             BEAGLING AT ETON

                                    BY
                              A. C. CROSSLEY

                       ILLUSTRATED BY J. ROBERTSON

                                   WITH
                      CONTRIBUTIONS ON HARE HUNTING
                       BY COLONEL ROBERTSON-AIKMAN,
                     MAJOR FISHER, MR. G. H. LONGMAN,
                        MR. HOWARD-VYSE AND OTHERS

                               ETON COLLEGE
                   SPOTTISWOODE, BALLANTYNE & CO. LTD.

                       _First Published March 1922.
                    Second Impression February 1923._




PREFACE.


There seems to be no real reason for writing a Preface to this book
except for the purpose of thanking the many Old Etonians who have given
me their assistance in its production. At the same time I should like to
take this opportunity of explaining that, when I began compiling this
record of the Eton College Hunt, it was mainly for the purpose of amusing
myself during the intervals of school work, football and beagling in
the Michaelmas Half of 1921, and it was not until the book was nearly
finished that I became bold enough to imagine that it might be of
interest to others who, like myself, have hunted the hare on the ploughs
of Dorney and Datchet.

I am only too conscious of the inadequacy of my own work, but, in spite
of its defects, I hope that this short history of a pack of Beagles which
has been in existence for 64 years, and which has given their first
experience of hound lore to so many eminent amateur huntsmen, may be of
some interest to Etonians past, present and future.

I then decided to enlarge the original scope of the book by obtaining
contributions from recognized authorities on the various aspects of Hare
Hunting. I have added these in the shape in which I received them as
Part II., and I must thank COL. ROBERTSON-AIKMAN, MAJ. FISHER, MR. G. H.
LONGMAN and MR. HOWARD-VYSE for their great kindness in giving me their
help.

I would also like to thank MESSRS. LONGMAN for their kind permission to
include Ch. III. of Part II. which has already appeared in the ‘Hare’
volume of the Fur and Feather series published by them: MESSRS. ARNOLD
for their kindness in allowing me to give a story of Rowland Hunt; MRS.
GRAZEBROOK for lending me the diaries and photographs of her father,
EDWARD CHARRINGTON; and COL. MEYSEY-THOMPSON for the loan of his diary
and for his many letters which have helped to throw light on an otherwise
dark period.

                                                           A. C. CROSSLEY.

ETON, _December 1921_.




CONTENTS.


                                 PART I.

    CHAPTER

      I. THE OPPIDAN BEAGLES                                       1

     II. THE COLLEGE HUNT                                         12

    III. THE AMALGAMATION                                         21

     IV. ROWLAND HUNT AND HIS SUCCESSORS                          35

      V. FROM 1886 TO 1899                                        51

     VI. THE GOLDEN AGE, 1899-1914                                60

    VII. THE WAR AND THE FINAL TRIUMPH                            80

                                PART II.

    CHAPTER

      I. HARES, BY MAJ. ARTHUR T. FISHER                          91

     II. KENNEL MANAGEMENT, BY H. H. HOWARD-VYSE                  98

    III. BEAGLING, BY G. H. LONGMAN                              101

     IV. THE HUMANITARIAN ASPECT, BY COL. ROBERTSON-AIKMAN       107

                               APPENDICES.

    APPENDIX

      I. LIST OF MASTERS AND WHIPS                               113

     II. RECORD OF SPORT                                         118

    III. LETTER FROM F. GRENFELL TO _Eton College Chronicle_,
           DECEMBER 1899                                         121

     IV. “BEHAVIOUR AND CONTROL OF THE FIELD,” BY A MASTER OF
           HOUNDS OF FORTY YEARS’ EXPERIENCE                     124

      V. THE USE OF THE HORN, BY H. H. HOWARD-VYSE               125




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                                PAGE

    T. C. GOULDSMITH, MASTER 1921-2                    _Frontispiece_

    EDWARD CHARRINGTON, FOUNDER OF THE OPPIDAN BEAGLES  _To face_  6

    THE SORT OF DAY WE ALL KNOW                                   11

    AN OLD-TIME BEAGLER                                           13

    GOOD-NIGHT                                                    20

    AN UNPARDONABLE INTRUSION                                     34

    ROWLAND HUNT (CENTRE) WITH HIS HOUNDS AND WHIPS     _To face_ 40

    AN AWKWARD MEETING                                            42

    “THERE SHE LAYS”                                              50

    A DISAPPOINTING FINISH                                        57

    “HOLD HARD!”                                                  59

    FRANCIS AND RIVERSDALE GRENFELL                     _To face_ 60

    PLAN OF KENNELS                                     _To face_ 62

    1.40 P.M.                                                     64

    A TYPICAL INCIDENT                                            66

    HIS LUCKY DAY                                                 70

    G. K. DUNNING’S YEAR                                _To face_ 78

    HIS MASTER’S VOICE                                            79

    T. C. BARNETT-BARKER’S YEAR                         _To face_ 86

    THE KILL                                                      90

    MAP OF COUNTRY HUNTED BY E.C.H.                     _To face_ 90

    FEEDING TIME, DABBLER, GEORGE CHAMPION, GIPSY AND
      RASPER                                            _To face_ 98




THE ETON COLLEGE HUNT.




PART I.




CHAPTER I.

THE OPPIDAN BEAGLES.


It was a manly country-loving boy who first undertook the task of
introducing Beagles to Eton; a boy, versed in the etiquette of hunting
and devoted to a healthy open air life, who loved a horse and who loved
a hound, fond of music and fond of dancing, who spent every moment of
daylight in cultivating the instincts of a clean country-bred Englishman.

Edward Charrington is unfortunately dead. He died in 1894, but he left
behind him a diary of his last two years at Eton, and in this he gives
a lucid account of how he initiated the Beagles. He acted on a sudden
inspiration. Within a week he had actually got together subscriptions and
purchased two couples of beagles. But it is better to give the story in
his own words, in extracts from his diary:

“_Monday, Jan. 18th_, 1858. Thought of getting up some Beagles.

“_Tuesday, Jan. 19th._ Got up £7 10s. for the Beagles.

“_Thursday, Jan. 21st._ Ran with Lawless and Hussey. Beagles. Bad run.

“_Saturday, Jan. 23rd._ Went with Vyner after 12 and bought two couples
of Beagles. There were eight to choose from. We tried them all in a
field. Gave £3 a couple for them. Ran a drag after 4, of four miles. I am
huntsman, Johnstone _mi._ whip.”

All this is clear enough except the mention of Lawless and Hussey.
Charrington’s pack was undoubtedly the nucleus of the Oppidan Hunt
which existed till its amalgamation with the College Pack in 1866. But
Lawless and Hussey kept a few Beagles at the same time. The present Lord
Cloncurry, Valentine Lawless at Eton, has given me the following account
of his Beagles and how they originated.

“I shall be glad if I can help in facts for your book about Eton and the
Beagles, but after a lapse of more than sixty years it is not easy to
write from memory without notes. Keeping dogs was an offence under strict
school rules, though the rule had been often broken, and in Oct. 1857 or
Feb. 1858 Dr. Goodford, who was then Head Master, invited me to breakfast
at his house and to talk over the question of ‘Lower Boys frequenting
Tap.’ As you know, ‘Tap’ was a private room in a public-house beyond
Barnes Bridge where beer and mutton chops were served, and where drinking
the ‘Long Glass’ and other time-honoured customs were maintained.

“Dr. Goodford proposed that, if I (as Captain of the Boats) would put
up a notice in Tap, ‘that no Lower Boys be admitted to this room,’ he
would withdraw the rules against dogs so far as to authorise the College
Beagles and he would give recognition and assistance. My notice remained
on the wall in ‘Tap’ for thirty years, it may be there now for all I
know. As Captain of the Boats, I became nominal Head of the Hunt, but I
was a bad runner, and a long-legged boy named Hussey, stroke oar of the
‘Victory,’ became the real Master and Huntsman of the first _official_
Beagles. Before that time, Beach in 1854, and Charrington later, had kept
a few couples.”

Col. Meysey-Thompson of Westwood Mount, Scarborough, has given me most
of my knowledge regarding Charrington and the rival pack of Lawless and
Hussey. He says in one letter:

“I have a hazy idea that Hussey had three or four Beagles, but he did
not do much with them. Nor did in fact Charrington or the Edwards’ (a
third rival pack about which I know nothing). They pottered about with
them, though Charrington’s pack was a little more pretentious. But they
were not recognised by the Masters of Eton; only about seven or eight of
Charrington’s personal friends knew that they existed.[1] It was some
time before the Beagles were allowed, and I can remember conversations
that took place with Balston before they became a permanent institution.”

Again in a letter to the late Vice-Provost (F. H. Rawlins) in 1899 Col.
Meysey-Thompson says:

“Although Charrington kept a few rather nondescript hounds in 1859 (and
1858), they were not really looked upon as a school pack, and had not
much more title to this description than those kept at the same time by
another boy ‘Edwards,’ both packs hunting anything and being taken out
just when the whim of their owners seized them. Charrington’s, however,
were undoubtedly the nucleus of the present hunt. I remember one hound
he had that towered over the others, and was so very much faster that he
always had a short belt buckled round his neck somewhat to assimilate
his pace to that of his comrades, but even then he was usually about a
quarter of a mile ahead.”

In another letter he writes: “The fact is that in the early
years—certainly up to 1861—it was a rather scratch affair. ‘Joby’ acted
very often as huntsman or whip, and those who were so called ‘whips’
scarcely received a formal appointment at first, but had the whips handed
over to them at the meet.”

W. T. Trench, the Master in 1862, wrote to the late Vice-Provost a letter
in which he questions Charrington’s position as the first Oppidan Master.
I quote from his letter, but I think his evidence is overborne, and that
there is little real doubt that the Eton Beagles owe their existence to
the zeal and enthusiasm of Charrington and his College contemporary, R.
H. Carter (about whom more anon). He says:

“The _Eton College Chronicle_ which you sent me woke up many memories
of the good old Eton days. I think the _Chronicle_ is wrong as to
Charrington having been the first Oppidan Master. The present Lord
Cloncurry (then Valentine Lawless) and Hussey got up Beagles in 1858. I
don’t think there were more than two or three couples. Charrington’s was
a rival pack. He and his supporters hunted _sub rosa_. No one except a
few privileged ones knew where they met. Lawless and Hussey were high up
in the School then, Charrington and his lot much lower down.”

On more than one occasion Charrington combined forces with Lawless,
sometimes with considerable success. The combined meets attracted a big
Field, which proved that the interest in the Beagles was rapidly growing.
Here is an entry from Charrington’s diary:

“_Tuesday, 9th of Feb._ 1858. Wh. Hol. I bought a hare. Got her from
Ipswich and joined packs with Hussey. Met at Sanatorium and turned her
out; over a hundred fellows out. Hussey hunted the hounds. Ran her to
Chalvey and lost her there.”

But, whatever the footing of Lawless and Hussey, it is to Charrington
that we owe the Oppidan Beagles. His was a subscription pack of 8½
couples of hounds. His subscriptions in 1858 we do not know, but his 1859
funds amounted to no less than £52 10s. Thus the hunt was placed on a
sound business footing.

Considering the inconveniences, the sport was apparently good. There were
terrible difficulties. There used to be Chapel at 3 o’clock for all, and
after 12 was too short altogether for a pack of Beagles to wear down a
hare.

Col. Meysey-Thompson writes:

“It should not be forgotten what a very limited time we had in which to
reach the kennels, get the pack out, find a hare, return with the hounds
to the kennels (the Master and Whips), and be ‘changed’ and either in
school or Chapel by 3 p.m.—missing our dinners sometimes. When there
was ‘Absence’ it was worse, for we had to be there, and I remember on
one occasion Balston finding fault because so many boys were late for
Absence, and I pointed out to him that we the Whips were there, although
we had had to go to the kennels, a long distance out of the homeward
path, so that the others should have been there too if they had hurried
up. He accepted this plea. We never got out of school till 11.45, and
were supposed to be at dinner by 2 p.m. In the afternoon when there was
‘short’ Chapel we did not get out of Chapel till 3.20, had to change and
have one run and be in by lock-up, which of course was early. I sometimes
wonder how we did it, when perhaps we had run very nearly to Maidenhead.
It was the getting back which was the crux.”

The pack was kennelled near the Dorney Road beyond the Sanatorium, the
kennel huntsman being Alf Joel, Joby Minor as he was called. There is
always a Joby at Eton, and this one undertook the duties of kennel
huntsman. Charrington used to give him various sums of money (he had no
fixed salary), for which he fed and housed the hounds.

Charringon’s Beagles hunted anything; a bagged fox, which resided at
the kennels “within earshot of the musical harmony of his relentless
pursuers,” an occasional bagged hare; innumerable bagged rabbits, which
invariably met with untimely ends; a drag, usually a hare-skin, and
anything else which presented itself.

Here are some extracts from his diary which illustrate the character of
the sport:

“_Thursday, 28th Jan._ 1858. Went out hunting with the Beagles. Very good
run. Found a rabbit and killed. Finished at Salt Hill. Went in there and
refreshed ourselves.

“_Saturday, 6th Feb._ Went out before breakfast with the Beagles and
found a hare but did not kill it. Met at Philippi. One dozen rabbits
came for sport. We turned them out and killed them. One ran into the
river by Upper Hope.

“_Thursday, 18th Feb._ Stayed out. The Beagles met at the Iron Bridge
over Chalvey. Mitchell _mi._ gave us a live hare to turn out before them.
We turned it out in view and she took us a long round by the gasworks,
where a man caught and turned it out again, and we ran it for 30 minutes
and lost it by Chalvey Village across the road there. Altogether we ran
this hare 55 minutes.”

The most interesting development comes a little later. The Masters did
not all by any means approve of the institution of Beagles, although they
must by now have known of the College pack, which had already existed a
whole season. On the 13th of March the following entry appears:

“Goodford sent for me and stopped the Beagles. Didn’t care for that.
Joined with Hussey after 4, turned out a brace of hares and killed them.
One ran into the Cemetery Churchyard and jumped the wall about five feet
high. Coming home we saw a weasel up a tree. Soon stoned him down, and
after rushing up and down a hedge for some time Modesty killed it. I have
sent it to be stuffed.”

But the Half was nearly at an end, and it closed without further
incident. Dr. Goodford made no further attempt to check the progress of
Beagling during the fortnight that remained, either because he imagined
that his order had been obeyed or because he was disposed to wink at
their existence.

This is what the late Mr. Charles Tayleur of Buntingsdale Hall, Market
Drayton, said of Charrington and his Beagles in a letter to the late
Vice-Provost in 1899:

“Charrington was at my Tutor’s, a friend of mine though a trifle senior,
and we used to go hunting with terriers or anything we could find; till
it was, I believe, at my suggestion that a few Beagles should be got
together, that Charrington adopted the idea. I helped him from the start
in conjunction with Johnstone, and afterwards had as coadjutor Chambers
and I believe Schneider, but in the early days whipping-in was done by
any one appointed that was out. This was certainly the first pack of
Beagles, as those started by Lawless were an afterthought on the part of
some seniors in the School. We ran a drag to start, and hares when we
could find them; but we got into trouble sometimes hunting the latter
at first. The first bag-fox we hunted was sent to me from Leadenhall
Market by my uncle, the late W. Tayleur of Buntingsdale, and he showed
us many a good run—as we kept him pretty fat to prevent him outrunning
our small pack. However we eventually lost him in Stoke Park after a good
run. I myself saw him crossing the Park, but we had to stop the hounds.
The first day we ran him he was taken in the farmyard of a man called
Aldridge. I believe that he showed us many a hare afterwards.”

There is rather a good story about old Mr. Tayleur of Buntingsdale,
who has long since departed this life. He had an old shepherd on his
estate, and one day, shortly after he had changed his name from Taylor to
Tayleur, he met him in his park.

“What do you call your dog?” he asked. “Wal,” replied the shepherd,
“ah used to call ’im ‘Growler,’ but I suppose I shall ’ave to call ’im
‘Growl-E-U-R’ now.”

The 1859 season was a highly successful one. There were, as I have
already said, no less than 58 subscribers. The staff was the same, and
the names of the hounds are given in the appendix at the end. Ricardo
and Lord Parker used to whip in when the regular whips were absent. No
more attempts were made on the part of the Head Master to put down the
Beagles. Here are some of the best runs:

“_Monday, Feb. 28th._ Met at Athens. In coming to the meet the fox
got out of the bag and we could not find him for 1½ hours. Had a most
splendid run to Stoke of about five miles, and he went to ground in a
hollow tree. We could not find him, but since learned where he was and
sent for him.

“_Friday, 11th March._ Met at Easy Bridge. Turned down a fresh untried
fox which came from London this morning. I got him from Rebbets,
Leadenhall Market. He was very wild and gave us a very quick 2½ miles run
to Aldridge’s, where the hounds ran him into a pond, and we could not get
him out, for he got among some rushes in the middle. At last I offered
10s. to any one who would get him out, and Alf Joel took his coat and
waistcoat off and swam in and caught him by the brush and pulled him out.”

The sequel to this incident is not so amusing. The fox was so perished
by his adventure in the pond that he died the same night in spite of
attempts to revive him with brandy before the kitchen fire of a farmhouse.

“_Wednesday, 16th March._ Met at Cuckoo Weir. Had a capital run with the
big fox to Slough, where he ran to ground on the railway line about ¼
mile from the station. We could not get him out of the pipe he had run
up, and two bull terriers and several navvies were at work more than four
hours digging him out. We found a leveret and ran and killed it there.
The hounds did not get home till 6 o’clock.”

[Illustration: EDWARD CHARRINGTON.

(_Founder of the Oppidan Beagles._)]

But the run of the season comes as late as Thursday, 28th of March. The
entry is as follows:

“Half holiday. Met at Sanatorium. Had a brace of bagged hares. The first
did not give us much of a run, but the second gave us a clipper; the run
of the season in fact. Ran a ring to Chalvey, to the Sanatorium, away to
Slough and Upton Park, where we killed. Vide _Bell’s Life_ for Sat. 26th.”

In this run they joined forces with the College pack for the first time.
Two more days they repeated the experiment, and then not again until the
amalgamation in 1866. After such an extraordinary run it is surprising
that the arrangement was not made permanent, but the fact remains that
the packs continued separate for another six years.

Charrington’s last run with the Beagles was the climax of his Eton
career. Here is the entry in his diary. It will describe better than any
words of mine what must have been his feeling of satisfaction at having
accomplished a work that was destined to prosper long after he himself
had died.

“_Monday, April 11th._ The last day of the season. Met at Philippi. Had a
capital run for the wind up and killed our hare in the Field all amongst
the fellows playing at cricket.”

I wish I knew something about Johnstone, but no information whatever
has come into my hands concerning him, except that he was Charrington’s
principal coadjutor.

In 1860 R. E. Moore was Master, and of him I know very little indeed,
except what Col. R. F. Meysey-Thompson says in a letter.

“In 1860 R. E. Moore in Sixth Form was Master, and the pack began to be
looked upon as a recognised institution, though it was not until the next
year 1861 that a regular subscription was made when J. G. Chambers was
Master (afterwards so well known as a ’Varsity oar and champion walker
and for many years the umpire at the ’Varsity Boat Race).”

Moore actually secured the Head Master’s leave to keep Beagles, and
henceforward it became an official sport at Eton. Moore had for his only
whip Baker _mi._, who performed the (?) unparalleled feat of winning the
School Steeplechase while still in jackets.

All through this period the Beagles were growing in importance in the
School. They did not force themselves forward, but almost imperceptibly
they began to assume the position they have held ever since. And they
continued to prosper during the next three years under the Mastership of
J. G. Chambers, W. T. Trench and F. G. Pelham.

Schneider and Senhouse were Chambers’ whips, and at the end of the season
a presentation was made to him as a testimonial. During the next year W.
T. Trench held office with F. G. Pelham and H. M. Meysey-Thompson (now
Lord Knaresborough) as his whips. W. T. Trench in a letter said: “We
wound up the season with a drag to Maidenhead, when the subscribers very
kindly presented me with a silver cup, which I am proud to have on my
dining table now.”

F. G. Pelham was Master during the following season. He won the Mile and
was second in the Steeplechase in 1863. As his second whip he had W.
R. Griffiths, the Captain of the Boats. Pelham also had a testimonial
presented to him.

I have passed over these three years lightly because little information
has come to hand and no anecdotes at all. It is too long ago to expect
much, and what I have are merely isolated statements. But in 1864 I
am on firmer ground. Col. R. F. Meysey-Thompson has supplied me with
a diary which contains a complete record of the season’s sport. H. M.
Meysey-Thompson was Master, and his whips, A. Turnor and S. H. Sandbach,
are still alive. There is so much to be said about H. M. Meysey-Thompson
that a letter from A. Turnor will not be inappropriate here as giving an
excellent and vivid summary of the sport.

                                           “_North Stoke, Grantham._

    “The recollection of the Eton Beagles in 1864 is perhaps more
    vivid than my recollection of Aeschylus and of Homer. The
    kennels were on Dorney Common, a miserable and ramshackle
    construction, and a bagged fox resided within earshot of the
    musical harmony of his relentless pursuers. Joby Minor, the
    most artful poacher in Eton, was kennel huntsman, ran with the
    drag and administered to the comforts of the fox. The hounds,
    a somewhat unlevel pack, were contributed by the ardent sons
    of Nimrod who valued more the hunting lore of Beckford, Silk
    and Scarlet, and such like sporting authors, than anything
    Greece or Rome could produce in the way of Classics. W. T.
    Trench and his brother Benjamin, Lord Worcester, Dick Thompson
    and the writer were notable amongst others who brought hounds,
    and the Hon. Evelyn Pelham and the present Lord Knaresborough
    were amongst those who carried the horn. The sport was of the
    finest, and the climax was reached when hounds found a wild
    hare, and after a choral service of two hours hunted her to the
    death.

    “On one of those rare but memorable occasions when the writer
    was handling the hounds, a yokel possessed of no sporting or
    manly instincts struck the exhausted hare with a spade and
    hid it in a cart. The huntsman with the aid of his Beckford
    perceived what had happened, and boldly and determinedly
    wrested the hare from the yokel and gave it to the hounds, thus
    fulfilling the loftiest instinct of venery.

    “All concerned enjoyed the sport. The hounds obviously, the fox
    because he knew that he could baffle his pursuers, and the boys
    because it called for the exercise of skill, sight, intellect
    and endurance. Above all Joby Minor because he drew a salary.

    “It is recorded that on one occasion a beagle entered the
    schoolroom in Schoolyard of Mr. William Johnson, a kind,
    eccentric, but very short-sighted Master. Forty voices,
    gratuitously and somewhat officiously, informed him of the
    patent fact, causing a requisite but temporary cessation of
    work. His reply was: ‘Stop. I will deal with the intruder.’ He
    seized a large key, gazed steadily and threw it in exactly the
    opposite direction to the spot on which the unconcerned hound
    was sniffing the untainted air. Due notice was taken by the
    class and the Master adequately informed.”

During the Mastership of H. M. Meysey-Thompson the kennels were improved
considerably, and he presented the pack with the first “copper” that they
ever had for cooking the hound food. They had a fairly good season, and
some interesting runs are recorded in the diary which has been lent me by
Col. R. F. Meysey-Thompson. Here is one of the most remarkable:

“_Tuesday, Jan. 19th._ Had a bag-fox. A bright day but a good many clouds
about and a splendid scent. Turned him down by Crosse’s Farm. Away he
went, past the river jump into the road leading to Aldridge’s, down which
he went to the left till he came to the grass field there, up which he
turned to the left through Aldridge’s rushy field straight for Dorney,
where he was coursed by some greyhounds, but he went away through Burnham
Abbey, when he turned to the left to Maidenhead. Here he was headed and
turned to the right to the gardens at Burnham (which are about two miles
distant from the Abbey), where we lost him. Distance about seven miles.
Time, 40 minutes. Crosse was riding, and said it was all he could do
to keep up. He said Ferryman and Boscoe led the whole way. We who were
running got in about twenty minutes after. Only about twelve out of a
field of about forty showed up at the end. We were obliged to get into a
cab, as many of us as could, and just got back for absence.”

The whole principle of the Beagles before the amalgamation was entirely
different from what it is to-day. The pack was privately owned by various
boys, who brought hounds from their homes and lent them for the season.
It may be of interest to give the names of the hounds together with those
of the boys who owned them:

    _Hounds._                                      _Owner._

    Rummager, Ruler                                Buddicom.
    Tapster, Gobbler, Music, Ruby                  Jones.
    Cromwell, [2]Coic, [2]Famous, [2]Chorister     Turnor.
    Ryot, Myrtle                                   Wellesley.
    Boscoe, Ferryman, Ranger                       R. F. M.-Thompson.
    Clara, Crafty, Pilot, Boxer                    Wakeman.
    Famous                                         Crosse.
    Bellman                                        Gordon-Lennox.
    Sprightly, Dilligent                           Hon. R. C. Grosvenor.
    Trueman, Dexter, Music, Trinket                C. S. Newton.

Col. Meysey-Thompson says: “Any one lending hounds was entitled to run
with the pack without paying any subscription, though some did not avail
themselves of this exemption. Only Fifth Form were allowed to run with
the pack, but a Lower Boy bringing a hound had the special privilege of
accompanying the pack.”

H. M. Meysey-Thompson (the brother of the Colonel) was a good runner. In
1863 he won the Hurdles and was third in the Mile, and in 1864 he won the
Steeplechase (the ambition of all beaglers) and was second in the Mile.
Turnor and Sandbach were also good runners. The best run the Beagles had
during his Mastership was in the region of Dorney, where they ran a hare
for an hour and five minutes, covering more than six miles. In the end
she burst her heart just in front of hounds.

There was a curious and not altogether pleasant incident at the end of
the season. A presentation to H. M. Meysey-Thompson was arranged chiefly
under the fostering care of a boy named Kennion (now Bishop of Bath and
Wells), and he was offered his choice of an oil painting of the pack or
of a silver hunting horn. He chose the latter. At the breakfast which
was held in honour of the event, W. W. Wood got up, and proposed that it
should be made a horn of office instead.

A very warm discussion ensued, and the question was put to the vote and
carried, to the chagrin of those who had been chiefly instrumental in
raising the subscription. The horn is still in existence. A beautiful
piece of work it is, with the names of every Master since 1864 inscribed
on it. It is now kept on the dining-room table of the house at which the
Master of the Beagles boards.

Kennion was a regular follower in those days. It is surprising how many
churchmen, and eminent churchmen at that, have enjoyed the sport with the
Eton Beagles. Three Bishops to-day, the Bishop of St. Albans, the Bishop
of Bath and Wells, and the Bishop of Cape Town, were all keen followers
at Eton. M. B. Furse, Bishop of St. Albans, was actually first whip in
1889, while the late Canon E. K. Douglas was one of the most successful
of the early Masters. There is scarcely anything so pleasing as to see a
parson taking his own line over a hunting country. They are few in number
these sporting parsons, but very often they are the best sportsmen of all.

In 1865 C. S. Newton was Master with R. F. Meysey-Thompson as his first
whip and E. Royds as the second whip. Royds was a very good long-distance
runner, and won both the Mile and the Steeplechase in 1865, while R. F.
Meysey-Thompson was a good all round athlete.

I have no records of this season at all, and so must pass it over without
comment. The only thing we do know is that near the end of the Half the
Oppidans ran a drag to Salt Hill and invited the Master and whips of the
College Beagles. It was at this drag that the followers were regaled with
champagne and sandwiches, a custom which had become a regular one. And
here the amalgamation of the two School packs was proposed. But I will
leave the account of this for another chapter.

[Illustration: THE SORT OF DAY WE ALL KNOW.]




CHAPTER II.

THE COLLEGE HUNT.


The College Hunt was founded in 1857 by R. H. Carter with J. A. Willis as
his whip. It is a great misfortune that from this year until 1863, when
the Journal Book was started, we know very little about it. Carter hunted
them for no less than three years, which proves at least that he was an
enthusiast. His pack consisted of all kinds of nondescript “dogs”; there
was no standard of size, and report has it that it included a retriever.

[Illustration: AN OLD-TIME BEAGLER.]

The pack was kennelled by one Ward in the Playing Fields, and hunted
drags chiefly, but also wild hares when they were found. Sometimes they
turned out bagged rabbits. One thing however we do know. They made
an agreement with the Oppidan pack somewhere about 1859 by which the
Oppidans took the country west and the Collegers the country east of the
Slough Road.

The Hunt soon adopted a button with E.C.H. on it. There is a story of
Provost Hawtrey arresting one of the whips in the Cloisters and demanding
what the lettering on the button was intended to mean. The boy, aghast
(for beagling was not allowed in those days), mentioned the letters
E.C.H., whereupon the old man, who was not averse to personal flattery,
took it to be a compliment to himself as they were his own initials.

One of the runs of 1859 was actually recorded in _Bell’s Life_. As I have
already noted in the previous chapter the Oppidans joined forces with the
Collegers on three occasions, this being one of them.

Carter was succeeded by T. J. Huddleston, and Huddleston by E. E. Witt,
who held the hounds for two seasons. Of neither of these do we know
anything. But Thackeray, who succeeded Witt, first instituted the Journal
Book, which was kept right up to the time of the amalgamation in 1867.
I have also been greatly helped by the only two College whips of this
period who are still alive, R. V. Somers-Smith and A. A. Wace. Here is a
letter from the former which covers this whole period from the season of
1863 to the amalgamation:

“I went to Eton as a Colleger in the autumn of 1862, and first ran with
the Beagles in the following spring. Thackeray was then the Master, for
which position his chief qualification was a copious vocabulary. We then
chiefly hunted drags; only occasionally trying for a hare, never with any
success.

“The pack had then been in existence only a few years; they were kept
at the lodge at the Slough end of the Playing Fields by Ward, the
groundsman, and were a mongrel lot. One or two real beagles, some
cast-off harriers, some nondescripts, ‘just dogs.’

“As late as 1862 they kept a badger; the brute knew his job and trotted
along until overtaken, when he sat down until the field came up. One of
the whips carried a sack and a pair of tongs, and the badger was by help
of the latter dropped into the former and carried home.

“There was a story against Lewis, one of the whips, that on one occasion
the badger took refuge in a useful outhouse adjacent to a cottage, and
Lewis was discovered sitting on the sack to prevent the badger escaping
this way, making dives at him with the tongs when the badger threatened
his legs.

“Lewis was Master in 1864; he was a little Welshman, rather prematurely
aged; he was quite a sportsman but a poor runner. I used often to take a
whip in his day, but do not think I was in ‘office.’ A. A. Wace was first
whip.

“Lewis went to Merton; rather distinguished himself there as a
rider—Merton being then a hunting College—and died suddenly in his room
there in 1869.

“In 1865 A. J. Pound became Master. Pound was a remarkable
character—intellectually rather below the average, but endowed with some
originality and an exceedingly strong will. I have sometimes doubted
whether he was quite ‘right’; he looked at the world and mankind from a
point of view entirely his own, and made no effort to adapt himself to
convention of any kind. But he was thoroughly honest and straightforward;
the kindest and most faithful of friends.

“He subsequently went to the Bar, the last profession for which he
was fitted, was for a time a magistrate in British Guiana, married an
American, and latterly fell into pecuniary difficulties and took his own
life.

“His eldest son is a distinguished sailor.

“Pound took up the Beagles seriously. He got together quite a decent
little pack, and began to hunt hares regularly.

“Our great difficulty was the shortness of the time at our disposal.
‘After 12,’ the interval between 11 o’clock school and dinner at 2, after
allowing for time spent in changing, we seldom saw even an hour’s actual
hunting. Too short a time for beagles to run down a hare. ‘After 4,’ from
Chapel to lock-up, was little better, especially as hares always made it
a rule to run away from home, compelling us often to whip off in order
to get back in time. One of my most abiding recollections is that of
long trots back from the parts beyond Langley and Slough to get back to
Absence.

“Pound adopted a scheme of his own of hunting in the morning. With one
or two choice spirits he would arrange that we should be early at the
‘Saying Lesson,’ then the invariable early school, thus getting away
soon after 7.30, run across to the ‘Dolphin’ at Slough (which stood on
the site of Aldin House where old John Hawtrey subsequently flourished),
breakfast on beer and biscuits and hunt until it was time to get back to
11 o’clock school. That gave us a good two hours’ actual hunting, and we
began killing hares pretty often.

“I was Pound’s first whip and principal coadjutor for two years, and it
nearly killed me! In fact I was sent home in the middle of the Summer
Half of 1866 supposed to be threatened with consumption. Tindal and
Gosset were whips, and subsequently Armitstead, who was a very fine
cross-country runner, and at Oxford an oar of some repute.

“Of the 1867 season I have no recollection. I was not allowed to run for
reasons of health, and I cannot even remember the name of the Master;
possibly this was the year of amalgamation.”

Here is the first run recorded in the Journal Book:

“The E.C.H. met for the first time this season at the kennels. There
was a large muster. The hounds were laid on in a wheat field of Gough’s
adjoining the S.W.R. and ran at a tremendous pace down the grass meadows,
crossing the S.W.R. and into Datchet plantation, in the plough beyond
which a check ensued, which allowed time for the remainder of the field
to get up with hounds. Some cold hunting now ensued, but hitting the
scent off in one of Cantrell’s fields near Ditton Park they carried it at
a great pace as if for Langley Church. The pace however was too good, and
they ran into him in a field adjoining the London Road.

“After an interval of about ten minutes the hounds were laid on in a
field adjoining Ditton Park, and, the scent having considerably improved,
it was but few could live with them. The fencing here was very severe,
numerous being the purls, and some stiff water-jumps intervened to cool
the ardour of gentlemen who were too ambitious of shewing in the front.
It was evident from the terrific pace they were now holding that nothing
could live before them. And it was not long before they ran into their
prey just as he was crossing the Upton Road.”

There is a complaint at the end of the field pressing on the pack, “and
that there was far more noise than is consistent with the decorum of the
hunting field.”

Here is a merry account:

“The running of the hounds could be seen all the way from Riding Court
up to the Langley Road, and it was pronounced by all to be faultless.
While a drag was being sent back two fields were drawn blank. The hounds,
having been laid on, ran from Langley Broom down to Datchet Wood. The way
in which they swung their own casts was the admiration of all beholders.
‘Hark! forrard!’ was again the cry as they bowled like marbles over the
crest of the hill, making the welkin ring with their melody. When in the
bottom they bent to the left; each hound scoring to the cry, as with the
pack at her heels puss sought the friendly coverts of Ditton Park, having
crossed the line which the drag had taken in full sight of the hounds.
The huntsman and first whip, kindly assisted by Mr. Lewis, soon got the
hounds out again. Home was now the word, and home we went after genuine
sport, the field declaring that the only doubt was which was the better
run of the two.”

The Beagling Book of this period abounds in quotations from the
inimitable Mr. Jorrocks.

    “Better to rove in fields for health unbought
    Than fee the doctor for a nauseous draught,”

is a very true maxim, and Lewis has very aptly applied it to Beagling.
Even as early as Thackeray’s season, however, they killed one wild hare
after a good run. But a drag was the usual order, and it was poor sport
really for boys especially because hounds ran as if glued to the scent.
Occasionally this was varied with a rabbit, but just as the hare almost
invariably escaped, so did the rabbit almost invariably succumb before
two fields had been crossed.

Of course the great handicap was time. But the letter which I have
already given has shown the immense difficulties in this respect. What
enthusiasm was required to surmount them all and to carry on as they did!

All the accounts of the College Races are also included in the Journal
Book. There was an unpleasant incident at the end of the season which
may as well be recorded just to show how to deal with people who are not
gentlemen.

“It was much to be regretted that several ‘gentlemen,’ who in no way
contributed to keep up sport, thought it necessary to make remarks which
only showed their ignorance of the art of venery, and complained of there
being no sport for their adequate remuneration for subscriptions. Their
subscriptions were returned, and, extraordinary to relate, the E.C.H.
still existed. These gentlemen (?), like the ‘London Brigade’ with the
Queen’s Hounds, were generally if not always choked off at the first
check, and, if there was no check, were indeed ‘lost to sight’ but not
‘to memory dear.’”

And here is the obituary notice of a really kind and pleasant farmer,
Mr. Gough of Datchet. A sporting farmer is a treasured article in any
country, and when one dies the Hunt sustains a serious loss. This Mr.
Gough had been particularly good to the E.C.H.

“The E.C.H. has much reason to regret the loss of Mr. Gough, a tenant
farmer, who by his sportsmanlike conduct conduced in no small measure
to the prosperity of the Hunt. On his land a sure find might be
anticipated, and bagmen were unknown commodities. By his example several
of the surrounding farmers were induced to open their lands to the
E.C.H., and, though a lawn meet was not often the fashion, Mr. Gough’s
hospitable house was never drawn blank for beer and luncheon. The ‘Gough
breakfasts’ in the Lent term afforded many a pleasant recollection for
dreary after fours, and his tales, though generally ‘twice told,’ were
rarely tedious.”

H. J. L. B. Lewis was Master in 1864 with J. B. Wood, A. A. Wace, who is
still alive, and R. V. Somers-Smith as his whips. Here is a letter from
Mr. Wace which describes the sport with admirable vivacity:

“The Master of the College Beagles in 1864 was Lewis. He rejoiced in five
Christian names; three, really surnames, indicated Celtic origin, of
which he was very proud. Though of a short sturdy frame his lungs were
not so good as his heart, as an early death at Oxford showed; and being
slow over plough he left much of the field work to his long-legged whips.
Lewis had learned how to handle hounds in kennel and field in Wales, and
he gave us a very happy season with his knowledge, generosity and good
temper. We had, if I remember right, five or six couples; dwarf harriers,
rather than the beagles of Sussex; though there was one true to the
latter type which generally did as well at a bad check as Lewis did. They
were kennelled at Ward’s Lodge on the Datchet Road. We hunted, I think,
three days a week, and our country extended from Salt Hill and Cippenham
to as far beyond Datchet as the calls of hall or lock-up allowed us to
get. After we had got our little pack and our lungs into some training
by following drags we took to hares, but without much success except for
exercise. Agar’s Plough and Cippenham were always good draws; but we
rarely killed, for Ditton Park, lying in the centre of our country, was
too convenient a sanctuary. It had its advantages, however, for us as
well as for the hares, as we learnt to bless it as an excuse for being
late for hall or lock-up. We could so often honestly say that we had
lost time in getting hounds out of the Park coverts; and that seemed to
please the Master in College; for, as he often told us, its ducal owner
was his wife’s cousin. Hounds, then often disappointed, required blooding
with a bagged hare or rabbit, neither ever giving a decent run; and I
disliked the job all the more because Sussex had shown me a better way of
using beagles for rabbits; and I thought of the hours spent with my gun
in a ride while real beagles hustled rabbits round and round a big wood.
Tiring perhaps of these ‘bags’ we yield to a suggestion, made I think by
Joby Minor, that a badger would give us more fun, certainly more scent,
and would always live to fight beagles another day.

“It was bought and did give us some fun at first; but this palled because
the badger soon realised that it could save its skin without so much
exertion as a long run over heavy ground. It used to make for a long
coppice beyond the Datchet Road, and when the pack ran into him there
he would run up and down immune, and finally run quite kindly into the
bag in which he had left his pleasant quarters at Ward’s Lodge. He also
developed a natural love of drains; and thereby hangs a tale, memories of
which seem to discredit Joby Minor. Our badger had found a drain under
the S.W.R. a nicer refuge than even that wood, and so Joby was ordered
to stop it before unbagging the badger out that way. One ‘after twelve’
we had a merry run up to that drain but found it stopped. Hounds swore
badger was inside; Joby swore he had stopped it; and suggested that
finding this the badger had got out to the metalled line one way or the
other, leaving on that no scent. It was dangerous to test this, and,
casts on the fields either side failing, we drew off homewards. On the
run back suspicions seized us, and two of us undertook to shirk hall or
cut it short and run out again to that stopped drain before Chapel. Joby
was right, but very wrong too! He or his understudy _had_ stopped the
drain, but not till the badger had been allowed to run in! He unstopped
it when we were safely gone, and the badger had walked into its familiar
bag. Had we two not met him just leaving the line he would probably have
tried to sell us that badger the following week! I still cannot think
unkindly of Joby when I recall the humour of this incident; or think of
the Beagles of 1864 and of many friends who followed them, of whom two
later on—Frere and Somers-Smith—ran for Oxford over shorter distances
than we covered.”

Lewis was famous for his Rape of the Block, which was restored to the
Head Master in 1891. The Block, as all Old Etonians will know, is used by
offending boys to kneel on during the process of being swiped.

About this time the kennels underwent some improvement. “A new room
was added, a new palisade raised and the brick pavement laid down.
The appearance of the whole was workmanlike and neat, but not gaudy,
reflecting credit on Mr. Martin, the carpenter.”

“Con—found all ’ares wot takes to parkses” (_vide_ Mr. Jorrocks) was
very appropriate to their country with Stoke Park and Ditton Park in the
middle of it as tempting places of refuge for a sinking hare.

On one occasion in Lewis’s season he was favoured with a visit.

“Wednesday, St. Matthias’ Day, _dies creta notandus_, the great
Pomponius Hego and Scrutator, known as having long held a proud position
in the first flight of the E.C.H., leaving the ‘Shires’ favoured the
provinces with their presence. Thackeray and Moore brought down a hare
from Oxford, which Pound turned out at Queen Anne’s Spring.”

The sport, however, on this occasion was not good, “every inch of scent
being trodden out by gentlemen who seemed to have discovered the secret
of perpetual motion.” This season ended after rather unsatisfactory
sport. In Lewis’s case ‘the spirit was willing but the flesh was weak,’
and he frankly owned that his running powers did not enable him to prove
a capable huntsman. Ichabod, Ichabod.

But Pound got together a much better pack. His season has already been so
well described by Mr. R. V. Somers-Smith that it is unnecessary for me to
add anything. Pound seemed in all his accounts to have been completely
dissatisfied with the world in general, for he scarcely ever praises
anything in big records, and he speaks of almost everything in embittered
terms.

On one occasion a hare was put up at 10.45, i.e. a quarter of an hour
before school. The huntsman and whips returned to school while the hounds
went on by themselves and killed their hare, which was stolen by and
afterwards recovered from a sweep. This was only the third occasion on
which a wild hare had ever been killed by these hounds.

One day the hounds joined with the Prince’s Harriers, and the Prince and
his retinue passed close by and inspected the little pack, “_no doubt_
with an admiring eye!” The unlevelness of the pack may be shown by the
measurements taken on March 25th, 1865:

    Abigail      19″
    Rouser       18
    Valiant      17½″
    Pliant       17″
    Smuggler     16½″
    Jargon       16½″
    Affable      16″
    Wellington   16″
    Rattler      15¾″
    Dainty       14½″

This was by far the most successful season the E.C.H. had ever seen.

So much for the College Beagles. It is to be wondered at that at this
time there should have been two packs of beagles in the school, but
it was about then that the differences between the Collegers and the
Oppidans were one by one abolished. The amalgamation of the Beagles was
almost the last of these reforms, and some account of it will be given
in the next chapter. It was quite natural that the attempts to introduce
beagles should have begun in an unofficial and semi-organised manner. But
the pack in the time of Pound was very different from that of Carter.
Just as the Oppidan pack had been brought to a respectable standard, so
had the College pack; and it only remained for the amalgamation (hideous
word!) to establish hunting at Eton on a very firm basis.

[Illustration: GOOD-NIGHT.]




CHAPTER III.

THE AMALGAMATION.


The idea of amalgamating the College and the Oppidan packs of Beagles
was first mooted in 1864, but little came of it, probably owing to the
reluctance of College to renounce the undoubted advantages which it
possessed. A. J. Pound, the Master of the College Beagles in 1865 and
1866, was opposed to the scheme for reasons which he has shown in the
Journal Book of the College Beagles (pp. 223, 224). Towards the end
of the season of 1864, on March 16th to be exact, the Oppidan Beagles
invited the Master and Whips of their neighbours to their annual drag
at Salt Hill, where they partook of refreshments, liquid and solid.
During these Mr. E. Royds arose and proposed “That the two packs be
amalgamated.” These are the words which A. J. Pound has written in the
Journal Book, and which adequately express his view of the proposal:

“Mr. Pound seconded the motion, though much against the grain. It may be
well to make a few remarks here showing the advantages and disadvantages.
It may as well first be mentioned that it is almost a settled thing that
the two packs be amalgamated next year. The advantage of this arrangement
will be entirely on the side of the Oppidans, the increase of country
enabling them to hunt every day of the week, and good kennels in lieu of
their present ones. The disadvantages on the side of College, inasmuch as
the subscription being so much heavier than the present one, none will
care to join who do not try to ‘run to hounds,’ and in all probability
none, Colleger or Oppidan, who cannot ‘run to hounds’ will be allowed to
join. The great amusement of the Easter Half will be snatched away from
College, and we fear loafing will increase in a double proportion. Still
it is to be hoped that Collegers will try and hold their own against the
Oppidans in the amalgamated field, and we think all must see that this
step is a necessary one and cannot be prevented now that the amalgamation
has proceeded so far and Collegers are admitted to all the races. College
must go with the age, for the age will not go with College.”

The College Beagles had only two more days hunting and then Pound closed
the Journal for the season in the following way:

“May the E.C.H. never amalgamate, may the E.C.H. never enjoy worse
seasons than the two last, are the fervent prayers of Mr. Pound, who with
deep regret resigns his post of Master to Mr. Armitstead.”

The obvious reluctance of Pound to amalgamate and his bitter phrases
regarding the whole proposal certainly seem strange to us who live
in days when there is little if any difference between Collegers and
Oppidans (except brains). Perhaps he was angry at being, so to speak,
“cornered” at the Salt Hill refreshment table. Probably he was in a false
position. In 1864 the Collegers had been admitted to all School races,
and so were scarcely in a position to refuse flatly what was simply a
request of the Oppidans. In his entry many of his remarks seem somewhat
lacking in common sense. If there was an increase of country for the
Oppidans surely the same applied to the Collegers. Again it appears
selfish to grudge the Oppidans the use of the kennels, especially when
the combined pack would obviously be much improved by hounds from the
Oppidan pack.

Indeed his only real grievance seems to be that many Collegers would not
be allowed to run with the beagles and that others would not be willing
to do so owing to the increased subscription. There seems to have been
at the time a desire to keep the field very select, a membership of only
seventy boys being allowed. Perhaps the Head Master objected to many boys
being allowed to run. Or again perhaps the Masters considered themselves
unable to control a larger field. But it is at least peculiar that as
large a field as possible was not encouraged to run with the beagles. It
would have meant a larger subscription, and consequently a better pack
and better sport. As it was, however, the subscription was one pound, and
only twenty boys from College were admitted by the terms of the treaty
drawn up later in the year. This treaty we shall append shortly.

Even allowing this to be a grievance, it seems surprising that Pound
should oppose what seemed a most desirable object. Obviously the
amalgamated pack would be better run and would in all probability show
better sport. Moreover, Collegers and Oppidans were growing more and
more friendly every year. Already nearly all the differences between the
two sections had been abolished. It almost looks as if Pound wished that
they still existed. “College must go with the age, for the age will not
go with College.” It is a sentence which might mean almost anything. The
Oppidans had received the Collegers into all their sports, and yet the
latter do not seem to have welcomed the change.

The next development of the proposal appeared in the _Chronicle_ of
Nov. 22nd of the same year (1866). Here the leading article was devoted
to this purpose, and this is too important not to be quoted in full.
Without it, the proposal might, and probably would, have been allowed to
“drop unnoticed” perhaps for a considerable number of years. After a few
preliminary remarks, it goes on as follows:

“Now we may as well begin by stating that our suggestions refer
principally to an idea which has been started before this, but has been
allowed to drop again unnoticed, although we must say we think the idea
a most felicitous one to all parties whom it concerns. We refer to the
idea once brought forward, of Oppidans joining their beagles with those
of the Collegers—a plan which we think would tend greatly to further and
increase the harmony and goodwill that we are happy to say at present
exists between these two essential parts of one school. We all know
that combination is strength, and we have been delighted to watch the
gradual admission of Collegers into all the privileges and sports of the
Oppidans, beginning with the amalgamation of Lower Club and Lower College
at Cricket, the admission of Collegers into the VIII., which occurred the
same year, and lastly the admission of Collegers into ‘the Field’ (one of
them having been no insignificant member of a wonderfully good XI.) and
into all the sports and races which have hitherto been open exclusively
to the Oppidans. We have therefore one other arrangement to propose,
which, if duly carried out, will complete the bond of unity and harmony
between us, and will also, we have no doubt, give universal satisfaction,
viz. the amalgamation of the Oppidans’ and the Collegers’ packs. Its
advantages, we think, must be apparent to all; and we defy its most
strenuous and determined opponents, if indeed any such exist, to find
any good grounds for defence. We should have all the advantages of a far
larger extent of country to hunt over; and that, if some of the farmers
are going to be as reluctant, and we might almost say as disagreeable, as
last year, would be no inconsiderable gain to our hunt.[3] In a word,
more country, more friends and more good-fellowship are the three leading
features of the new scheme of amalgamation that we are proposing.

“Again we would venture to suggest that, as in due proportion to the
school Oppidans would compose at least three-fifths of the subscribers,
the huntsman should be an Oppidan and the first whip a Colleger; while
the other whip should, we think, be either a Colleger or an Oppidan
according to merit, just as there happened to be one or other really
fitting for the office.

“We think then that we have thus shown the great advantages derived from
amalgamation; and we hope that we have sufficiently convinced, not only
those who have a hand in the management of all these things, but all
our readers, that what we have here recommended is the right thing to
do. We would conclude by venturing to hint that the ‘Master,’ whoever
he may be, should be decided on as soon as possible, as there is much
to be done this Half, especially if amalgamation is really brought
about. Arrangements will doubtless have to be made for kennels that
will suit both parties (though we suppose that the old kennels will be
just as convenient for Collegers as ourselves); needful repairs have to
be executed, farmers consulted; various other necessary requirements
attended to.”

Of course this leader was written by an Oppidan. But nevertheless, it
seems to place before the School the true facts of the case, and to show
that the proposal was much to be desired and would eventually prove a
benefit to both parties. Besides, the leader had yet another merit. It
provided a basis for the treaty which had of necessity to be drawn up
if the amalgamation were decided on. It suggested that the membership
of the pack should be in some accordance with the respective numbers of
Collegers and Oppidans. “At least three-fifths” are the words, but they
certainly seem to imply that the author considered that a yet larger
proportion of Oppidans would be desirable. He also says that, owing to
the necessary disparity of numbers, an Oppidan should take the mastership
and a Colleger the first whip; while the second whip should be awarded
purely for merit.

Such an article as this could not be lightly passed over by those who
had a hand in the management of the beagles. There was only a bare month
between Nov. 22nd and the end of the school-time. In January 1867 the
following entry is to be found in the Journal Book (p. 236):

“_January_ 1867. The Beagles have been amalgamated with the Oppidan pack,
and the following are the Articles of Agreement:

I. In consequence of the wishes of both parties, it has been resolved to
amalgamate both packs of Beagles.

II. No one will be allowed to run who has not paid his subscription.

III. That a board be put up at the beginning of the Easter Half for
fellows to enter their names.

IV. That no one below Remove will be allowed to enter, and that the
number be limited to 70, Fifth Form receiving the preference.

V. Of which there may be 20 Collegers.

VI. That one pound subscription be paid throughout.

VII. That the appointment (of Master) is in the hands of the Captain
of the Boats, who may be guided in his choice by the result of the
Steeplechase.

VIII. That when a Colleger is huntsman an Oppidan shall be first whip,
and when an Oppidan is huntsman a Colleger is first whip.”

Thus did the amalgamation become an accomplished fact. It had been
brought about not without some manœuvring and considerable difficulties.
Certainly, however, from the rules which we have just quoted from the
Journal Book, it seems as if College, as well as the remainder of the
School, welcomed the change. “By the wishes of both parties” seems
fairly to put the point beyond dispute, even though it was written by an
Oppidan, W. C. Calvert.

The terms of the treaty seem eminently just. The suggestions of the
_Chronicle_ were obviously considered and were to a large extent adopted.
The disparity of numbers (50 Oppidans, 20 Collegers) seems perfectly
fair on reflection. The clause (VIII.) allowing either a Colleger or an
Oppidan to be huntsman, but ensuring that if the huntsman be an Oppidan
the first whip must be a Colleger, seems fairer than the _Chronicle’s_
proposal that the huntsman should always be an Oppidan and the first whip
a Colleger. The only peculiarity of the treaty is contained in Clause
VII.; that the appointment of the Master should rest in the hands of the
Captain of the Boats seems a mistake. Obviously the fittest person to
choose the Master was the previous Master. The Captain of the Boats could
not have known whether a boy possessed the necessary qualifications or
not. But it does not greatly matter. So far as we know this privilege was
never used. Indeed the whole treaty fell into abeyance before very long.
The distinction between Collegers and Oppidans grew less and less, and
only Clause IV. remained for any length of time. This limit of seventy
was finally abolished in 1876. Unfortunately we have no record of the
actual members of the E.C.H. after the amalgamation. But we do know that
it proved an unqualified success and that beagling became more and more
popular from this time onwards.

The amalgamated pack had a good set off in the season of 1867. F. E.
Armitstead, who had been first whip of the College Beagles in the
previous season, did not, surprisingly enough, become the first Master
of the combined packs. Instead he took the first whip, and the more
important office was occupied by W. C. Calvert, an Oppidan, who had not
held any official position the previous year. During this season the
E.C.H. gave up hunting drags, and from this time onwards the hare became
the sole quarry. The pack consisted of 1½ couples of College hounds, one
hound (Boscoe) from the Oppidan pack, and 2½ couples of hounds which had
belonged to neither pack. In addition to these, there were 1½ couples
of first season hounds, out of Jargon, by Smuggler, the property of the
College Hunt; 2 couples presented by Mr. Calvert, and a couple lent
by Lord Mandeville. In all nine couples of working hounds. Jargon and
Joyful had both hunted with the pack since 1863, when the Journal Book
was first kept. The former was evidently a most remarkable hound. She
was a big “black, tan and white” bitch standing 16½ inches. There is a
painted photograph of her in the Journal Book (1865), together with A. J.
Pound, R. V. Somers-Smith, and another hound Valiant, and, judging from
the number of times she is mentioned, she must have been a most reliable
bitch with a good nose and plenty of dash.

As has already been remarked, bagged foxes and hares had been turned down
occasionally in the previous seasons. Only once after this date was a
bagged hare turned down, and this in the mastership of F. Johnstone. The
first whip has made an entry in the Journal Book in which he expresses
his loathing of this “sport,” and his hope that the Master would not
provide any more bagged hares. After this date, no bagged hares were
hunted, and with the exception of the annual drag at the end of the
season the wild hare became the sole quarry.

The E.C.H. in the period after the amalgamation produced some well-known
sportsmen, among them such names as the Duke of Beaufort (then Lord
Worcester), Mr. E. P. Rawnsley and Mr. G. H. Longman. Mr. E. P. Rawnsley
has written the following long and interesting letter about beagling at
Eton in his day, containing a story which shows that even Head Masters
are not incorruptible at times:

“When I went to Eton in 1864 there were two packs of beagles, Collegers’
which hunted east of Slough Road, and Oppidans’ which hunted west of
Slough Road. Hares in the Oppidans’ country were very scarce indeed,
and hunting depended on an occasional bag-fox, which ought to have been
tabooed, and a drag, the latter a poor game for us youngsters who toiled
along and never saw a hound after first field. The packs were amalgamated
in 1866. The Oppidans’ pack had been kept up town, very poor kennels and
badly done. After the amalgamation the kennels were at the end of the
Playing Fields, and more trouble was taken that the hounds were better
done. There was no hunting before Christmas, only after, till the end of
March. At best the hounds were only a scratch lot, different boys getting
their people to keep one or a couple most of the year. I whipped in to F.
Johnstone in the spring of 1869; his father, I think, was then Master of
what we now call the Derwent, and he knew all about it and was quite good
at the game. One whip was an Oppidan, the other a Colleger. I don’t think
my Colleger had ever been out hunting before, and, as Johnstone expected
his hounds turned when he wanted them, I had nearly all the work to do;
cracked up in consequence. It was very hard work in those days; we could
not start till after Absence, had then to run to the meet, get a hunt and
run home again in time for lock-up, never having more than three hours to
do it all in, no allowance being made to the whips.

“I remember one day in particular, Johnstone was not out and I was
hunting hounds the far side of Langley; we had quite a good run and
killed—a great event in those days. Just as we had taken off pads and
mask, up jumped a fresh hare, away the pack went with a burning scent,
and it was a long time before we could get at them to stop them. It was
getting dark, and quite five miles from home, no chance of getting in
for lock-up, but we had the hare! So it was duly carried, such an object
it looked, without feet or ears and stiff as a stake, and left with our
compliments at the Head’s house, the clock struck nine as we stood there.
I suppose we were all reported for coming in so late, but we never heard
anything more. I suppose the hare was a peace-offering.

“In autumn of 1869, I remember, Jack Thompson (Mr. Anstruther Thompson’s
eldest son), George Wickham and I, all very keen, went to several of the
farmers and did our best to get them to keep hares, and we certainly were
better off the next year. There were hardly any hares on the Dorney side;
beyond Salt Hill and Langley were best, but nowhere good. In those days
we never got a day off for a hunt; I only remember one, to Oakley Court,
where we were most hospitably entertained but had a blank day. When at
Eton last June I had a look at hounds and kennels. Very different from
old days, kennels roomy, airy and clean, and hounds with a nice bloom on
them ready to go into work when wanted.”

Another well-known name is that of Lord Derwent, who as Francis Johnstone
was master in the same year that E. P. Rawnsley was second whip. In a
letter he gives a short record of his beagling career at Eton from the
time that he became a whip.

“In 1868 I was second whip to Walter Calvert, Armitstead, K.S. being
first whip. The amalgamation of the two packs had taken place, and an
arrangement made, I imagine, that a Colleger should always be on the hunt
staff. In the following year, 1869, I was master, Browne, K.S. was first
whip, and E. P. Rawnsley, who has only just retired from the mastership
of the Southwold after a long and very successful career as huntsman of
that pack, was second whip. During the year I ran with the Eton beagles,
we had only “after 12” and half holidays to hunt on. So our efforts were
limited from the point of view of time, and I do not recollect killing
many hares, but latterly no bag-foxes were kept to hunt.

“I paid a visit in the Lent Half of this year to the new kennels, and
only wished I was young enough to follow the charming pack on foot as of
yore.”

The name of E. P. Rawnsley is too well known and honoured to be passed
over thus lightly. For forty years he was Master of the Southwold, and he
is well known not only in Lincolnshire but in every part of England as
one of the most devoted supporters of hunting.

Johnstone’s season was better than either of those of W. C. Calvert. But
although the latter killed only three and two hares in his two seasons
respectively, yet he showed some good runs, and the amalgamation was
universally acclaimed as a success.

Before proceeding further it will perhaps be as well to give some account
of the country hunted by the E.C.H. at that time. It was bounded on
the south by the River Thames and on the north by the chain of woods
from Taplow to Stoke, and by the Great Western Railway from Slough to
Langley. It was and is still split into two parts by the Slough Road,
across which hares scarcely ever run. On the west side of the country
lay the villages of Eton Wick, Dorney and Burnham. This was the country
previously hunted over by the Oppidan Hunt, and below the railway at Salt
Hill hares used to be very scarce. In the Salt Hill country, however, and
up towards Stoke and Burnham, they were much more plentiful. On the east
of the Slough Road lay the villages of Datchet, Wyrardisbury (Wraysbury),
Horton and Remenham. Most of the country is plough, and what grass there
is, lies chiefly on the Dorney side of the country. Near the village
of Datchet Ditton Park is situated with its house surrounded by a moat
across which more than one E.C.H. hare has swum.

During the ten years after the amalgamation the kennels were at the Black
Pots end of the Playing Fields, and Ward, the groundsman who tenanted
the cottage and whose backyard took the place of kennels, acted as
kennel huntsman. There is no information about this man Ward save that
the hounds were kennelled at his cottage until 1876, when Rowland Hunt
transferred them to better kennels up town. Here is a letter from Rev. W.
Vickers, the brother of one of the early whips:

“It was my elder brother V. W. Vickers (who died in 1899) who was second
whip in 1873, with W. A. (Billy) Harford as first whip and Hon. C.
Harbord as master.

“The pack were kennelled at Ward’s Lodge, at the extreme east end of the
Playing Fields, Ward acting as K.H.

“In 1874 Harford was master, with L. Heywood Jones and Hon. E. W. Parker
as whips. My brother was responsible in 1873 for the account of sport
reported in the _Chronicle_, and was occasionally very riled by the
editor, who, like Miss Lucy Grimes, of the ‘Swillingford Patriot’ in
_Sponge’s Sporting Tour_, used to correct his effusions by substituting
‘puss’ for ‘hare,’ and so on! He hunted the Trinity Beagles at Cambridge
for two seasons, succeeding that fine sportsman G. H. Longman.

“Of the School tutors of my day, C. Wolley-Dod, the tallest and thinnest
of Masters, was a keen beagler, also my tutor G. R. Dupuis—both of them
in long frock coats and top hats. A. Cockshott too was a good friend to,
though not a follower of, the hunt; on more than one occasion securing
us a bill-day. One of these, I remember, was to Mr. Hall-Say’s place,
Oakley Court. I don’t remember much of the day’s sport, but have a
lively recollection of the _lunch_—a spread which made more than one of
us feel, when we found our afternoon hare, that there were occasions when
the saying ‘_Fox_ hunting on foot is but labour in vain,’ applied also to
_hare_ hunting!

“The pack in my day was like the old-fashioned ‘trencher-fed’ hunts—the
members bringing up in beagle term a hound if they had one, the
contribution of a hound taking the place of the one pound subscription.
It was wonderful (or so we keen ones thought) the sport such a scratch
pack showed.

“One day is impressed on my memory (in Fenwick’s mastership, I think),
when we ‘burst up’ three hares! The meet, I think, was Dorney Gate. I
forget how two were killed, but the third swam the river near Athens,
waited for us on the further bank, and was killed on Windsor racecourse.

“Another little incident. Meeting at the kennels we ran a hare into
Datchet Vicarage garden and were gratified to see the Vicar come out of
his house, hatless, to join (as we thought) in the chase. But no! his
ill-directed energy was _against_ the chase, which he forcibly reminded
us was a trespass!

“The ‘hunt servants’ wore no sort of uniforms—merely change coat,
knickers and stockings, with House-colour cap and ‘muffler.’ A little
latitude was allowed them as regards lock-up. Just as well! For I
remember one day a hare took us nearly to West Drayton!

“Of the first flight in my day no one could come up to C. E. Munro
Edwards. I do not think he ever held office, though he afterwards became,
with F. Selater, the founder of, and whips to, the Christ Church Beagles,
with which I, an outsider (of Magdalen), had the special privilege of
running. His wind was simply inexhaustible!

“Speaking of this reminds me of an incident which has nothing to do with
E.C.H. beyond the fact that the actors in it were the two whips. My
brother and Billy Harford by some means got out of 11 o’clock school in
time to meet the Queen’s staghounds on their opening meet at Salt Hill.
The stag ‘took soil’ in that pool close to the line, near the present
Burnham Beeches station. The two lads manned a boat which they found
near the cottage and succeeded in ousting the stag. The Press next day,
alluding to the incident, remarked that ‘the two young Etonians appeared
quite in their element.’ Rather amusing, as they were both inveterate
dry-bobs and probably never entered another boat during their time at
Eton!

“The largest number of hares killed in one season was by F. Johnstone
in 1869. The pack was still rather a scratch one, and did not belong
to the hunt, but to individuals. Undoubtedly they had some wonderful
runs, but there were still terrible disadvantages, especially as regards
time. Moreover, the conditions under which the pack was kept were very
unsatisfactory, and Ward made much too much money out of them. There was
a subscription of one pound for every one, but there were no facilities
such as a hound van.”

Perhaps it would be interesting to some to give the accounts of a few of
the best runs from the Beagle Books.

“_Saturday, Jan. 23rd_, 1868. _Upton Church._ A hare was viewed away at
the further corner of Mr. Nixey’s Plough, which as usual made straight
for Ditton, but failing to find an open smeuse went away to Riding Court,
where she turned homewards. The hounds hunting well followed her with
a burning scent, though many doubled some way past Datchet plantation;
here a fresh hare being started in her line enabled her to escape dead
beat, while the second hare carried the hounds across the L. & S.W.R. to
Black Pots and was next seen swimming under Victoria Bridge, whereupon
Mr. Calvert amidst great applause swam in and picked her up, and she was
given up to the pack. Time, 40 minutes, second hare 20 minutes.”

“_Wednesday, March 25th_, 1868. Saw a run which was, alas! the last to
many members of the E.C.H., but which was in every way worthy of that
renowned hunt. The meet was at the Three Tuns, and a hare was found
almost immediately on the left side of the Farnham Road. She gave us a
merry spin without a check up to Farnham, where the hounds were brought
to their noses, and it was with the greatest difficulty that they
regained the line owing to the very dry state of the ground. At last,
however, they worked it slowly down to Baylis House across the Farnham
Road, where the scent began to improve. The hare then crossed the G.W.R.
and ran a ring in front of Mr. Aldridge’s farm, and, just as the pack
were going to return home, she jumped up a few yards before them; the
hounds dashed off full cry past Baylis House across some grass fields up
to Stoke palings. Here they turned sharp to the right and at rather a
slower pace crossed the Farnham Road and made as if for Britwell. Again
they turned for Farnham, near which they were whipped off, as not only
time but daylight had failed. Time, 2 hours 26 minutes.”

A very good hunting run, as every one who knows the country will agree.

In Johnstone’s season the best run was that already described by Mr.
Rawnsley; and the incident of presenting the hare to the Head Master is
duly recorded in the Beagling Book. The account of the run ends with the
remark: “May the E.C.H. enjoy many such days and many such a finish.”

Mr. G. H. Longman writes:

“My mastership of the Eton Beagles extended over the two seasons 1870
and 1871, for in those days there was no hunting done at Eton before
Christmas. The kennels were at the end of the Playing Fields, close to
Black Pots. The rule was either to subscribe a sovereign or bring back a
couple of beagles, and the pack consisted entirely of hounds so procured.
Naturally the result was a rather unlevel lot, but they did their work
quite well, and I recollect that some hounds brought by one of the
Anstruther-Thompsons were about the best we had.

“Two hounds particularly remain in my memory, namely ‘Rustic’ and
‘Rival.’ I have in my possession now a coloured photograph of the pack,
taken by Messrs. Hills & Saunders, which was presented to me on the
completion of my second season of mastership. The occasion was celebrated
by a breakfast at the White Hart Hotel in Windsor, and, though the
authorities must, I think, have been aware of the fact, they neither took
the slightest step to prevent nor resent it.

“F. A. Curry and L. G. Wickham whipped in to me in 1870: G. H. Armitstead
and Hon. H. C. Legge in 1871.

“Nobody was allowed off Absence at that time, nor were we allowed to
attend that function ‘changed.’ I used to go, therefore, with a great
coat and pair of trousers over my beagling kit. Three Lower Boys were in
readiness at my tutor’s door, which was just opposite Schoolyard, one to
take off the coat, and the other two to haul away each at a leg of the
trousers, so that I was able to start off in a twink immediately after I
had answered my name.

“Our time being extremely limited we used to advertise a meet at say
Langley station for ten minutes after two o’clock, Absence being at two.
The kennelman brought the hounds to the meet coupled, and took them home
in the same manner. We used always to draw at the double, and if possible
coupled up the hounds in time to get back before lock-up, the run home
testing our endurance to the uttermost.

“This description of our methods will show how strenuous the work was,
but, though we did our best to get back in time for lock-up, I remember
very well one occasion when a hare rose in view just as we were about to
couple up the hounds. It was out West Drayton way. Off went the hounds in
full cry, and we were unable to stop them for something under an hour,
after—among other things—having swum across the Colne. We were an hour
and a half late for lock-up, and my tutor, instead of taking a reasonable
view of such an unavoidable episode, sent me up to the Head Master. Dr.
Hornby was full of threats to stop the whole thing, but finally contented
himself with setting me the fifth Iliad to write out, thinking that this
would prevent my hunting the next half holiday. I did hunt though, for my
method of writing out this Iliad was as follows: taking three pens sloped
one over the other I sat up all night and wrote out one-third of it. This
I showed up at one o’clock the next day at the Head Master’s house, and
never heard anything more of the matter.

“The farmers were extremely friendly, and indeed I only recollect one
who denied us permission to hunt over his land. The original refusal
was probably due to some misunderstanding; but the quarrel had been
emphasized by the fact that the beagles had, once or twice, run over his
land after permission had been withdrawn. In my two seasons, however,
chiefly on F. A. Curry’s advice, we strictly respected his decision: with
the pleasing result that, I believe, before the commencement of the next
season, permission was again gladly given.

“Half a century is a considerable time, and I am sure readers will
readily forgive my inability to recall any more episodes of the season
1870-71.”

Under the mastership of F. Fenwick a wonderful day’s sport was enjoyed
on Feb. 22nd, 1872, when no less than three hares were killed within two
hours. The meet was at Athens, and a short time before the meet two hares
had been seen to swim the river from the Eton side, a striking proof that
hares will take to the water even when not pressed. Hounds were taken
over the weir bridge and both these hares were killed after short runs,
but the hunt of the day was yet to come. A hare was found near Surley,
and after a fast ringing hunt of 1 hour 10 minutes was rolled over in the
open near Aldridge’s. The account of the run ends with the words:

“Thus it was

    ‘From a find to a run,
    From a run to a view,
    From a view to a kill
        In the open.’”

But the good runs are too numerous for selection to be easy, and at any
rate there is no great interest in the mere recounting of a run. But this
chapter cannot close without mention of the annual drag to Franklin’s, a
farmhouse near Bray, where the members of the hunt were entertained with
unlimited champagne and sandwiches. Unfortunately this custom was not
repeated after the year 1869 for reasons which are not known, but which
may easily be imagined.

[Illustration: “AN UNPARDONABLE INTRUSION.”]




CHAPTER IV.

ROWLAND HUNT AND HIS SUCCESSORS.


The year 1876 was as full of surprises as any that the E.C.H. has ever
seen. It was a year of changes, one might almost say of revolution. For
ten years the hunt had struggled on since the amalgamation with no very
marked improvement in the sport. The pack belonged to various boys. It
consisted of hounds of all sizes and shapes. Many things were crying out
for reform.

The year did not open with any great promise. None of the whips of the
previous season remained to hunt the hounds, and so the office of Master
devolved on Rowland Hunt, whose chief qualification was that he was an
amazingly good runner. He had never once whipped-in the year before, and
is not even mentioned in the Journal Book previous to 1876. But directly
the season began, he astonished everyone by the talent and knowledge
he displayed. Not only did he prove the most successful huntsman the
E.C.H. had ever possessed, but he showed himself to be an organiser of
the highest degree. No sooner had he taken over the Mastership than he
realised that the hounds were disgracefully kennelled, and that Ward,
the kennelman, was making a great deal too much money out of them. He
obtained leave from the Head Master to have the hounds removed to kennels
at the back of a Turkish Bath in the town. Here he made an arrangement
with William Lock, who kept the Turkish Bath. But it is better given in
his own words:

“It has been arranged that Lock is to receive £53, for which he is to
keep 15 couples of Beagles and do everything for them, in the way of
feeding, straw, coal, etc., and that if the Master wishes they should be
taken a week before the beginning of the Half to get them in condition.
For this £53 Lock’s boy takes the Beagles to the meet and takes them
back, etc.”

At the end he says:

“I have found Lock to be a thoroughly steady, honest man, and I think he
can be trusted in anything.”

I have mentioned Hunt’s dealings with Lock, first partly because Lock
entwines himself in the history of the pack from this time onwards, and
partly because the kennels of a pack of hounds are next in importance to
the pack itself, and the change of kennels was one of the most important
of Hunt’s many reforms.

Hunt in his first season killed 15 hares; that is, he more than doubled
the record for any previous season (seven hares by F. Johnstone). In his
second season he beat his own record by two. These wonderful results were
the effect partly of his talents as a huntsman and partly of the way in
which he reformed the E.C.H. He was the first to see the need of three
whips at Eton. Moreover they (the whips) soon learnt (for Hunt’s tongue
was particularly caustic and his expressions well chosen and to the
point) that they were not out hunting for pleasure. Hunt’s tactics were
to have one whip wide and forward on each flank, and one with him to stop
hounds running heel.

Rowland Hunt has sent me his own recollections of the E.C.H., which I
append here:

“When I took the Eton College Beagles, they were kennelled at a house
at the end of the Playing Fields towards Datchet. My recollection is
that the conditions there were very unsatisfactory, and that the man in
charge made far too much money out of them and did not feed them well.
I got the then Head Master to have the kennels moved to somewhere over
Barnes Bridge, and they were kept by a man named Lock, and, as far as I
remember, he did them very well, and I think he took them to the meets.
I think we improved the pack considerably by getting fresh hounds, some
of which were, I think, obtained from the late Mr. Fellowes of Shotesham
Park—about 16 inches—really dwarf harriers, but there was no foxhound
blood in them, and they had very good noses and could get along.

“I think the whips knew about as much about hunting as I did, but, as far
as I remember, it was roughly the usual way to have one whip somewhat
wide and forward on each flank and one with me to stop hounds running
heel or a fresh hare. On account of the short time for hunting, we took
every possible advantage of a hare and never allowed hounds to potter.
We lifted hounds and cut off corners when the chance occurred, but I
don’t think it was done enough to stop hounds hunting well. We had to
run risks, as it was very difficult to catch a hare in the time allowed
between Absence and lock-up. I don’t remember for certain which was the
best country; it is too long ago; but think it was towards Maidenhead.
I don’t remember any trouble with the farmers, but we got into a deuce
of a row with an old gentleman once for killing one of his hares in the
middle of March. It was a long day with Mr. Vidal, and I had to go over
on Sunday and apologise to the old boy and he became friendly, but I
missed Chapel and had to square the Praepostor—wasn’t that the name of
the cove who marked you in or out? I think we used to reckon that we
went to the meet at about seven miles an hour. May I venture to express
the opinion that hunting the hare on foot with 15-inch beagles is real
hunting, and real sport, and that the hare has a very good chance of
escaping, especially after Christmas? As I dare say you know, a hare is a
much more tricky animal to hunt than a fox.”

Hunt’s personality was amazing. He had a way which carried all before it.
He was versatile, and, as well as being a wonderful runner, he was an
excellent shot, a fearless rider and a good fisherman. He was, moreover,
a keen politician, even while at Eton, and has only just given up taking
an active share in the politics of the country.

Hunt was a good rider and used to hunt the Wheatland hounds on Arab
horses. Some one remarked that “to see him charging great hairy fences
was a sight for the gods!”

At Cambridge one day he saw a mounted farmer. “Hi, you elderly,
yellow-bellied oyster,” shouted he, “have you seen our hare?” Naturally
the farmer was offended, but Hunt smoothed over the difficulty and
explained it away by saying that it was one of his most endearing
epithets.

And now after not having hunted for some twenty years, he has again taken
on the Mastership of the Wheatland hounds. He hunts them himself with two
amateur whippers-in.

Hunt was a wonderful runner at Eton. In 1876 he won the Steeplechase
with consummate ease, after having lost a shoe early in the race. There
was a rule in those days that no one who had previously won a race was
allowed to enter for that race next year. Hunt in 1877 started for the
Steeplechase in full school dress and finished an easy first, clearing
the School Jump at the finish so as not to wet his clothes.

He was slovenly as to his dress, and several stories are told of his
appearance. Once he appeared on parade in beagling shoes which he bought
from Gane’s in the High Street and wore on every possible occasion. He
always ran with his shirt hanging out behind, at least his shirt always
came out when he ran. He did not care a button what he wore; his clothes
were bought merely with a view to respectability and not to smartness.
His language was his own; he had a knack of coming out with peculiar
expressions, and yet his personality was delightful. In some mysterious
way he smoothed over every trouble. There was only one farmer who gave
him any difficulty, and he made friends with two enemies of the E.C.H. On
one occasion he disturbed the pheasant coverts of a certain gentleman,
who was furious, as was his keeper; but Hunt on going to apologise so
touched the heart of the old gentleman that from that time forth he was
one of the firmest friends of the hunt. Hunt gives a list of farmers in
his time, and his remarks on how to treat them are well worth recording:

    “Mr. G. Lillywhite    Eton Wick.
    *Mr. Lovell           Eton Wick.
    *G. White             Boveney.
    *T. White             Dorney.
     J. Trumper           Dorney.
    *— Twynch             Cippenham.
    *J. D. Chater         Cippenham.
    *A. H. Atkins, Sen.   Farnham Court.
    *A. H. Atkins, Jun.   Chalvey.
    *H. Cantrell          Upton Lea.
    *H. F. Nash           Langley.
     J. Nash              Langley.
    *J. Five              Langley.
     R. Talbot            Ditton.
    *S. Pullen            Horton.
    *C. Cantrell          Riding Court.
     Vet. Surgeon         Datchet.
     H. Wells             Dutchman’s Farm.
     Slocock              Upton Court.
    *Major                Langley.
    *T. C. Moore          Upton.

“Great care should be taken about Mr. ——, as he is a very awkward
customer and an awful snob, and so he must be dealt with very gingerly.

“Those marked * must be called on personally. Game, two pheasants and a
hare, _must_ be sent to all these farmers annually as early as possible
in the football Half. Be careful to address all with an Esq. to their
names.”

It is such little attentions as these that make the difference between a
friend and supporter and an enemy. Hunt instituted this custom of sending
game to the farmers, and very successful it proved. It has become a
permanent custom, and is regularly observed to this day.

Hunt brought the pack to a much higher standard than it had ever
attained before, and left the foundations of an excellent kennel of
hounds. Some of them, as will be seen from the photograph, were somewhat
weak below the knees. But it must be remembered that careful breeding
had not yet brought the beagle to the standard of to-day. The sport
showed was in every way wonderful. The accounts of his runs in the Beagle
Book are very entertaining, and his language was as varied as it was
appropriate. Some of his best runs are worth quoting. There were so many
good ones that selection is difficult. Here are a few:

“_Thursday, March 30th._ The meet was Dorney Gate. We soon found to the
left and ran slowly for about a hundred yards, when they settled fairly
to her, and positively raced as hard as they could lay legs to the ground
to the river. Then, turning to the right, they ran through Taplow Spinney
(they had run so fast that only Hunt and Bigge, who had got a good
start, were anywhere near them). Then they ran on without dwelling for
an instant, and bearing to the left and then to the right they skirted
Dorney Village, leaving it on the left, and on nearly to Dorney Gate,
where they caught sight of her, and so, instead of returning to her form,
she made for some haystacks of Mr. White’s, but being routed out of there
she made her last effort in the open. But Harmony was too much for her
and she was pulled down in the open, after having been run in view for a
good half mile. Mr. Fellowes was very quick in getting the hare from the
hounds, for which the Master is much obliged. Time, 49 minutes; distance,
7 miles.”

The run that follows is typical of Hunt’s language:

“We found again after a short time and ran like old gooseberry up to
Dorney Village, where she tried to enter a garden, but there being no
entrance she turned round and made for the G.W.R., which she skirted
almost down to that interesting public called Botham’s, where she turned
sharp round and made back again to her form. But we had to whip off as it
was getting very late. Time, 55 minutes. Having to whip off so many times
plays Old Nick with us, but it can’t be helped.”

Here is an unfortunate incident recorded:

“Just after the beginning of the run, we are sorry to say that Mr.
Douglas came a real imperial cropper in charging in his usual determined
way a very high stiff piece of timber with a huge ditch on the other
side. He was so badly hurt that he had to be taken home in a fly. Hunt
only managed to get over the fence by landing on his head on the other
side, so it was ‘rather a stinker.’”

Referring to a run when C. P. Selby-Bigge had come down for a day’s
beagling, Hunt says:

“Mr. Bigge showed us that he had lost none of his ancient speed or powers
of endurance, and we were delighted to see his gigantic form once more
among us.”

And after they had killed a hare in the River Thames, he said:

“It was a very pretty sight to see the hounds dash into the river without
the slightest hesitation, four or five abreast, headed by the old white
bitch Bonnybell.”

Here is just one more good hunt:

“_Colnbrook Cross Roads._ We drew the Island blank but found directly
we got outside it and ran well along the side of Richings Park, which
she threaded and broke again for the Colne, which she crossed and then
recrossed, causing very difficult hunting. Then having got some way
before us she began a series of tricks enough to puzzle Old Nick himself,
but old Limber seemed to understand her dodges, and it was wonderful to
see the way he picked out her doubles and then brought the whole pack
round him in a second with one of his well-known notes so welcome to
hounds as well as huntsman. We went on thus very slowly for some way when
luckily our hare got up again and we got on better terms; but we soon got
on to some black fallow and they had to hunt every yard and at last to be
lifted on to some grass, where they hit it off again and ran nearly back
to the plantation, where she turned round and lay down by the Colne. She
got up in view, and they ran well for some little time. But getting on to
some black fallow again, they could not even own the line, so Hunt lifted
them over and they soon took it up on the other side and ran pretty well
over a road and round a pretty big field, where we again viewed her,
and this time she went decidedly groggy. She ran some way down a road
(bless the roads!) and we had a little difficulty, but we soon got on
her in a wheat field, where we viewed her, and she had been joined by
another hare. This was a bad job, and Hunt felt rather up a tree. However
he halloed to inform the fresh hare of our arrival. Accordingly, when
they got to the ditch at the bottom, they separated, and Hunt by a great
effort just managed to whip them off the fresh hare, and as our old hare
had stopped behind a tree, not being able to get over the ditch, when
Hunt got over it he found Mr. Portal at the bottom of the ditch (it
was about four feet deep), having got hold of the hare, with the pack
worrying and tearing at the hare on top of him. The pack also were most
of them in the ditch, and we had quite a job to get him out. Why on
earth the hounds did not bite him nobody knew, for he wouldn’t loose the
hare and neither would the hounds, so we had to pull the whole boiling
up together. He luckily escaped with a scratch or two, and looked very
lovely when he appeared looking rather as if his clothes were made of
damp mud. The time was 2 hours 25 minutes. An excellent performance for
hounds, huntsman and whips, for not only was the scent execrably bad on
the fallows, but the hare was one of the strongest and biggest ‘whatever
was seen,’ as Mr. Jorrocks would say. It was quite the finest hare Hunt
ever killed.”

[Illustration: ROWLAND HUNT (CENTRE) WITH HIS WHIPS AND HOUNDS.]

E. K. Douglas (the late Canon E. K. Douglas, of Cheveley, Newmarket)
closed the Journal Book of this good season with the following remarks:

“This ended the season of 1877, one of which the E.C.H. may be justly
proud and which we can hardly ever expect to be equalled. No less than
seventeen hares were killed and almost every day we enjoyed a thoroughly
good run. We cannot praise too highly the exertions of Mr. Hunt, the
Master, to whose wonderful skill and pluck the excellent sport enjoyed
throughout the two seasons in which he carried the horn is entirely due.
His loss cannot be too deeply deplored, while the E.C.H. owe their thanks
to Mr. Portal for his untiring energy in the field.

“Owing to the exertions of Rowland Hunt the pack of 1877 was brought into
a most efficient condition, and by judicious selection and drafts the
foundation of an excellent pack has been made, which it will be the _duty
of future Masters to maintain_.”

One other great reform is due to Rowland Hunt. He realised the necessity
of increasing the subscribers, and consequently he obtained leave for 120
instead of 70 boys to run with the beagles. When this limit of 120 became
obsolete I cannot ascertain, but no such limit exists to-day.

And now for Lock. Probably he was about the most unconventional kennel
huntsman that ever existed. He was short and fat and kept a Turkish Bath
in the High Street. How Hunt discovered his capacities for keeping a pack
of hounds is a mystery, for he was always to be found in his premises
attired in a very brief pair of scarlet bathing drawers.

Lock was quite a character. He grew to have a wonderful knowledge of
the country. He seldom went out of a walk and yet always seemed to
find his way to the kill. When he was out beagling was the only time
when he doffed his bathing drawers and substituted a pair of brown
knickerbockers. The hounds were very fond of him. According to up-to-date
ideas he did not do them well, but he did his best and kept hounds
fairly fit throughout the season. The kennels themselves were rather a
ramshackle construction, and not really fit for housing a pack of hounds.
But they were an improvement on the old ones, especially as the hounds
only spent three months in the year there; and they were considered
sufficient by many capable masters right up to the time when the twin
Grenfells, those two great Etonians who as every one knows fell in the
service of their country, took upon themselves the task of erecting new
and up-to-date kennels.

[Illustration: AN AWKWARD MEETING.]

Rowland Hunt left Eton and went to Cambridge, to do for the Trinity
beagles what he had already done for the Eton beagles. There is no
greater testimonial to his work at Eton than the fact that crowds of Old
Etonians flocked to subscribe to the Trinity beagles directly they heard
that he had undertaken the mastership. E. K. Douglas, his second whip,
reigned in his stead. From 1876 onwards for the next ten years the sport
was consistently good. Hunt had brought the Eton beagles to a higher
standard of efficiency than they had ever enjoyed before. It merely
remained for the succeeding masters to keep up this standard, which, it
can be asserted with truth, they have not failed to do.

Douglas was remarkable for his versatility. Few Etonians can boast the
honour of having had such a career at Eton as he. Senior keeper of the
Field, Master of the Beagles, and a prominent member of the Cricket XI.,
is a wonderful record for anyone. Here is a letter from R. D. Anderson, a
whip in 1878, which includes one or two interesting anecdotes:

“It is difficult to think of special incidents with regard to the beagles
in 1878 when I was first whip, but I enjoyed every moment of it.

“Douglas had a delightful personality, and there was no friction of any
sort with farmers or school authorities.

“After a strenuous football season, during which Douglas had been senior
keeper of the Field, he was obliged, by doctor’s orders, to be rather
careful of himself, so that occasionally he had to take a rest from the
active duties of huntsman. He was also in the Cricket XI. and got 53 at
Lord’s against Harrow. I remember on one occasion, when the hounds were
about to cross a road, hearing a lady’s voice call out ‘Stop.’ This was
not a request to the hounds or the Field, but an order from Her late
Majesty Queen Victoria to stop her wagonette, a carriage she invariably
used in her drives round Windsor, to allow the hounds to go by without
interfering with the sport.

“On another occasion a stag which was being hunted by the royal
staghounds crossed a field which we were drawing, and, although we did
our best to whip them off, two-thirds of the pack went after the stag,
and we did not get them all back for nearly a fortnight. Only a few
months ago I was interested to discover that quite accidentally I had
originated the jacket now adopted by the hunt. I never could run unless
thoroughly warm, and upon asking Denman & Goddard what was the thickest
material they could suggest I ordered a velveteen Norfolk jacket, which I
still possess.”

Douglas went into the Church and, I am sorry to say, died about a year
ago; he rose to be a Canon and lived at Cheveley, near Newmarket,
respected and revered wherever he went.

Invitation meets were always a joy in those days. Once or twice every
season the E.C.H. used to meet outside their own country at the
invitation of various hospitable people. One of the most favourite of
these meets was at Wooburn Green, where a certain Mr. Gilbey lavished
hospitality on the master and whips and a few kindred spirits. This
particular meet was famed for its luncheons and its hills, two delights
which it will at once be seen are scarcely compatible with each other.

Douglas was terribly handicapped by the weather, which was execrable,
at least so far as hunting was concerned. Dry winds and a clear sky
prevailed throughout the month of March, with the result that very poor
sport was shown during the latter part of the season. However he killed
eleven hares, a number by no means to be despised when there is only the
Easter Half to do it in. He entered in the Beagle Book what must have
been some excellent advice to new masters. Some of the previous masters
were flooded with useless hounds as a result of advertising for them in
the _E.C.C._,[4] for in those days few of the hounds actually belonged
to the hunt, and even those few were not kennelled at Eton in the
non-hunting months, but were walked by different boys at the request of
the Master.

Douglas says: “As regards hounds, it is best to insert a notice in the
_Chronicle_ at the end of the Football Half to the effect ‘that the
Master will be glad to have back any hounds (not belonging to the E.C.H.
itself) which were _regularly hunted_ to the end of last season,’ and
if he thinks he will want more, it will be found better for him to ask
fellows who, he thinks, know a good hound when they see one, to bring any
they can, rather than to issue a general invitation to the school. If
he does the latter he will probably find himself overwhelmed with every
description of cur under the sun.”

There was some discussion as to who should succeed Douglas as master. The
present Lord Hawke was approached, but declined in favour of his friend
A. H. Beach, who had a pack of beagles at Basingstoke. This is what he
says:

“Archie Beach and I were great pals, and on being offered the mastership
I said he must take it on as he had a pack of his own at Basingstoke, and
would make a much better huntsman. He was an artist at his job, and we
had a very good season.”

This season, 1879, was remarkable because the officials of the E.C.H.
adopted a distinctive dress for the first time. R. D. Anderson, in the
letter inserted above, claims that he introduced the brown velvet Norfolk
jacket which became the hunt uniform until 1904. A. H. Beach (now Maj.
A. Hicks Beach) says that he asked permission of the Head Master for the
master and whips of the beagles to wear a brown velvet Norfolk jacket;
the remainder of the uniform was not introduced till later, and the
pictures of this time give a peculiar impression of an ordinary school
cap and muffler, with dark knickerbockers and stockings of very varied
designs, with the rather picturesque brown velvet Norfolk jacket as a
quite distinctive feature.

Mr. Gerard Streatfeild writes:

    “Your letter recalls an excellent season and many happy
    recollections. The year I was whip (Beach master) the master
    and whips assumed the velveteen coat as uniform for the first
    time. Rupert Anderson the _previous_ season (master, E. K.
    Douglas), one of the whips, wore a velveteen coat throughout
    the season and was duly admired; so much so that Archie Beach
    copied it for the hunt the next season, and it has stuck. At
    the end of the season we secured two bag-foxes from (I think)
    Leadenhall Market. The result was not brilliant, the first
    getting away from hounds and getting into Stoke Park, which at
    that time was strictly preserved for game, and we heard a good
    deal on the matter; the second fox refused to run at all and
    finally took refuge behind a stable gate in Dorney Village,
    and I have a lively recollection of being told off to collect
    him from thence, no pleasant job as he was very nasty; he was
    returned to his bag, and what his ultimate fate was I fail to
    remember.

    “Dan Lascelles (Hon. D. H. Lascelles) carried a whip most of
    the season, as Hawke (Lord Hawke) did not come out much as
    he was anxious to win the School Steeplechase, and thought
    beagling might make him stale. Hawke was offered the mastership
    before Beach, but declined the honour and selected being first
    whip.”

On the very first day that Beach took out the beagles a hare began to
swim the river with half the pack behind her. She was brought to land by
a man in a boat and was killed shortly afterwards.

Beach was one of the few masters who entered in the Beagle Book the names
of those who ran well. On one occasion the name of Aikman occurs, now
Col. Robertson-Aikman, who has been Master of Foxhounds for five and
Harriers for twenty-two years. He won more of the prizes for harriers at
Peterborough Hound Show than any one else, and his sideboard is covered
with cups.

Of the Eton Masters at this time, Mr. Vidal, Mr. Cockshott, Mr. Marindin
and Mr. Bourchier were very kind, the two former on more than one
occasion obtaining leave for bill-days, i.e. a bill off boys’ dinner and
Absence. Mr. Vidal left Eton in 1881, much to the regret of everyone
concerned with the E.C.H. A more loyal supporter of beagling at Eton
than he could not have been discovered, and at the end of almost every
season’s beagling at Eton till 1881 the masters have entered in the
Journal Book a special note of gratitude for his support. While he was
at Eton he used to go up and judge at horse shows. Once he travelled as
far as Chicago, U.S.A., in order to judge the Arabs at a great American
show. After he left Eton he retired to Suffolk, where he bred horses till
his death in 1909. He had a large family, and one of his daughters is the
Dame at Mr. Stone’s house to-day.

Once in A. E. Parker’s season (1882) a hare went to ground in a rabbit
hole and took a considerable time to unearth. This incident happened at
an invitation meet near Reading. Two hares had been killed. The account
of the day ends as follows:

“Thus ended a most enjoyable day which afforded the best sport we have
had this season. Our best thanks are due to Mr. Hargreaves, whose
kindness and hospitality was only equalled by that of his son. The
weather had been perfection and we returned to Eton charmed with our day,
our sport, and our host.”

Both Daniel Lascelles and A. E. Parker had remarkable Eton careers in the
way of sport. Both were in the XI., the Field and the Oppidan Wall, and
both were masters of the beagles for two years. Lascelles unfortunately
perished of typhoid in the nineties, but Parker is still living. He was
for some time master of the North Warwickshire, and his son was master of
the beagles at Eton as late as 1916. No less than four different Parkers
held office at different times. This is a good record, but it has been
equalled by that of the Ward family, three of whom have actually been
masters.

These are Mr. Parker’s own recollections of the sport:

“When I was whip and master, and for some time previous, the beagles were
looked after by Lock at the Turkish Baths on the opposite side of the
street, only a little higher up, to Tap.

“Lock was a great character, and my first acquaintance with him was when
a bagged fox was hunted at the end of my first beagle Half; Lower Boys
were allowed to go out, and I went. The hounds ran the fox into a hedge
on Dorney Common, but would not tackle it. Lock pulled him out by his
brush, and he turned round and bit his thumb, so Lock hit him over the
head with his whip and killed him.

“When I was whip to Dan Lascelles we met at Dorney Common and ran a hare
up to Orkney Cottage near Maidenhead, and back down the side of the
river, and eventually picked her up stone dead in a cottage garden on
Dorney Common; she was as stiff as a post. I believe the time was 1 hour
20 minutes, but am not sure; it was a hot day and the pace very fast.

“The same year, when hunting a hare at Salt Hill, the hounds brought her
back close to the Field, and a cad killed her dead with a stone at about
20 yards. I broke my whip across his shins.

“Frequently when we went into the kennel Lock would come out of the
Turkish Bath with nothing whatever on, and with a mop in his hand which
he occasionally spun like a torpedo at a hound that happened to be
fighting or even scratching.

“One of his favourite expressions out hunting was ‘Pop your whip, Sir;
pop your whip.’

“On one occasion, when we had found at Turner’s Nurseries we ran the hare
back, and found Lock very busy stopping up the holes in the fence, so
that if she ran in she would find it difficult to get out.

“On another occasion we ran a hare dead beat into these same nurseries,
and Lock stood quite still in the rows of young green trees, about 18
inches high and very thick, and as the hare came jumping along the rows,
which she had to do as they were so thick, he hit at her, but mistimed it
and missed her, much to his disgust.

“I was hunting the beagles one day when we ran a hare to the river about
50 yards above the Victoria Bridge. She plunged in, with every hound
after her, and it was a very pretty sight to see hare and hounds all in
the river together. She swam under the bridge, and they were gaining on
her fast and were just about to catch her about 6 feet from the bank.
Seeing this, I got hold of a bush with one hand and tried to save the
hare with the other. I got hold of something by the ear, but when I
pulled it out it was one of the hounds, and we never saw the hare again.
I _was_ disgusted, especially as I lost my hold and fell into the river,
going clean under.”

Parker had hard luck in his second season owing to the floods, which
are always liable to be bad in the low-lying Thames Valley. Indeed,
during the great flood of 1894, Sayer, who now holds the post of verger
in Chapel, swam across the road outside Baldwin’s Bec (then Mr. H. E.
Luxmoore’s, now Mr. Stone’s) and back before breakfast on one pleasant
November morning.

There is an amusing incident recorded by Lord Newtown-Butler. After
meeting by invitation at Horton Manor they found a hare which
successively swam both the Colne and the Brent. Of the latter river he
says: “The cold water of the Brent proved no obstacle to the whips and
several of the Field, who courageously plunging in swam across. One lucky
individual got two young ladies to row him across.” This hare crossed
two more streams, and was eventually abandoned owing to the owner of a
nursery garden, into which hounds had run their beaten hare, turning the
hounds off his land. The run lasted three hours.

On April 15th, 1886, there is recorded an interesting agreement with
Lock, which throws some light on the financial management of the pack.
Barnett agreed to the hunt paying Lock £84 for the keep and food of a
pack between eighteen and twenty-two couples of hounds. This did not
include extra expenses and only referred to the Easter Half. It also
mentions that the expenses generally amount to nearly £40, which seems to
show that Lock did very well considering he was only burdened with them
for about twelve weeks.

Mr. Claud Luttrell, a prominent beagler in those times, writes:

“Barnard made me a whip after a long exercise with the beagles, with
Harry Boden and myself whipping in; my hound language, which I had learnt
from my father’s old huntsman Tom Sebright, decided Barnard in my favour,
and the other two whips were Willoughby and Barnett.

“I am writing this letter with photographs of that year’s beagle group
on the wall in front of me; Barnard has a hound called Landlord in his
lap—a light-coloured hound who helped us to kill more hares than any
other hound—wonderful nose and to drive like a foxhound. I have Gamble in
my lap, and I can’t remember the names of the others who appear in the
group; the prominent members of the hunt who are in the photograph are
Guy Nickalls, R. C. Gosling and his brother Willie, Tattersall, Holland,
Christian, Pechell, Green, Lord Montagu, Crum-Ewing, Dickinson, Vernon
and Stratton.

“The beagles were kept at Lock’s Turkish Baths, and old Lock used to
welcome us back at the end of the day in his bathing drawers—he had a
huge stomach and wore very small drawers, so was rather an unconventional
kennel huntsman in appearance, but the hounds were very fond of him, and
his kennel management was excellent. His son, who was a famous runner,
used to help him. The kennels were half way down the High Street, and
the whips used to stand in the street ‘after 12’ practising cracking
their whips, much to their own edification if not to that of the other
frequenters of the street.

“The pack was very uneven. One hound ‘Forester’ was over twenty inches.
He killed a lot of hares for us, but was always a long way ahead of the
pack and prevented their being covered with the proverbial sheet, so we
weren’t really sorry when a G.W.R. express put an end to his career on
the main line near Slough. Our best sport was in the country between
Taplow and Slough, but the railway was always a source of great anxiety
to the whips, and there were miraculous escapes of the whole pack being
cut to pieces. Lock and his son used to take hounds on to the meet—there
was no hound van in those days. We used to exercise on non-hunting days
in the Playing Fields, and I can remember some wonderful fast bursts
after a cur dog which we often coursed from Upper Club across Sixpenny
to the Fives Courts, when he used to get to ground in old Joby’s shop.
Rather derogatory to the dignity of the hunt officials, but it helped to
keep hounds fit.

“The whips used to get lots of perquisites in the shape of wounded
partridges and unsuspecting rabbits, which helped to supplement our
evening meal, though hounds were severely rated for running riot; it was
some compensation, after running one’s guts out over a heavy plough,
to return with a rabbit in the capacious pocket of one’s beagle coat!
As far as I remember Barnett’s mastership was very successful also. He
was a wonderful runner, and no day was too long for him, but I don’t
think he had quite as much ‘science’ as Barnard. His whips were Charlie
Bentinck,[5] Claud Pennant and myself. I hunted hounds a few times when
he was laid up, and I can well remember the difficulty of blowing a horn
when one had run oneself to a standstill over Dorney Common or some
50-acre plough.

“The Eton beagles taught me a lot about hunting, but the most important
lesson I learnt was never to hustle a horse over heavy plough, and I am
sure my horses ought to be grateful to the E.C.H. for teaching me this
lesson.”

Barnett, as a matter of fact, had a much more successful season than his
predecessor, equalling Hunt’s record of seventeen hares. His last hunt
produced an incident worth recording. “Our beaten hare,” says the Journal
Book, “was killed by a lurcher and stolen, but Barnett and Lock went for
a policeman while Douglas-Pennant took the hounds home. The policeman,
who was a ‘_nailer_,’ soon got us our hare back.”

After this season it must be owned that the E.C.H. ceased for a time to
show such good sport. During the next thirteen years the pack in no way
improved, and with the exceptions of the years 1892 and 1898 the sport
was inferior on the whole to that of the ten years just recorded.

[Illustration: “THERE SHE LAYS.”]




CHAPTER V.

1886-1899.


This will of necessity be a short chapter, as I have received few letters
referring to the period. A terribly large number of those who were
officials of the pack served both in the South African and in the late
War, with the result that comparatively few are still living. It was not
a particularly successful period as regards sport. Many fewer hares were
killed than in the previous ten years, owing chiefly to a deterioration
in the pack. Probably this was the fault of Lock. He was getting older
and fatter, and began to think more of saving himself trouble than of
keeping up a good pack of hounds. One of the Masters, A. M. Grenfell,
horrified him by making him feed the hounds on oatmeal. Moreover, there
was a tendency to make the pack a dog pack and exclude all bitches. In
1891 only four old bitches remained. As A. M. Grenfell remarked: “Of
course this is the best plan for Lock, as it saves him no end of trouble,
but that does not mean that it is the best plan for the hunt. There
ought, in my opinion, to be at least three couples of bitches to breed
from.” But there was no uniformity of opinion, and, while one Master bred
puppies freely, another would say that he did not believe in breeding at
Eton. And so the pack really deteriorated and provided on the whole less
sport than during the ten years previous to this time.

We do not wish to run Lock down. In a way he was an excellent kennelman.
But, like many excellent men, he was old-fashioned and a trifle
pig-headed, and several Masters had considerable difficulty in making him
understand that he was there to do what they told him. However, he was
wonderful out hunting, and, like old Mr. Mumford to-day, always seemed to
be viewing the hunted hare. This is what an old follower says about him:

“He used to run a Turkish Bath up town somewhere opposite Devereux’s
shop, and was enormously fat. He always carried a sort of policeman’s
whistle out with the beagles, and generally seemed to be in the right
place for viewing the hare. Both hounds and field had supreme confidence
in him and always went straight for his whistle regardless of the horn.”

During the Mastership of T. W. Brand (now Lord Hampden) an amusing
incident happened. He says: “We had a great run from near Langley Station
to beyond West Drayton. We swam the Colne and came back by train without
paying for our tickets. A bill was sent in to me for forty tickets. I
asked how they had got at the numbers, and was informed that they found
forty wet imprints of our seats in the carriages.

“There was a marvellous hound called Landlord, and I should say his was
the greatest personality in connection with the Eton beagles while I was
at Eton. He lasted for years and was a marvel. Of course the kennels
were poor things, but the hounds were fit and hunted well, and I am sure
it was a great advantage to be able to drop in there any time of day. I
usually went there after 10.”

Here is a letter from Mr. G. Fenwick:

“In the year 1888 a hound van was first used, chiefly, I believe, because
Lock, who then was kennel huntsman, had got too old and fat to stand
the, sometimes, longish journeys home at night. I know that the masters
and whips much appreciated the lift home after hunting. There also was a
picture painted of the hounds that year, and I think a certain number of
prints were sold, but what happened to it I don’t know. My recollection
of the print is that the whole thing was so bad that I wouldn’t buy one,
and I never have seen a copy since. It is so many years since I have seen
the Eton country that I expect there have been very many changes. My
chief recollection is of the soil and plough beyond Dorney, and the water
which at times was over the fields below Aldin House, Slough, after heavy
rains. I expect the same conditions still obtain. The most successful
Master in my recollection, if one may take the number of hares killed in
the season (in those days we only hunted in the Easter Half), was F. P.
Barnett, who I think accounted for 17. He was Master in 1886, and in my
opinion the finest runner over a really heavy country I ever saw.”

There were two important changes in uniform about this time. A. M.
Grenfell introduced the white knickerbockers and white stocks, and W.
R. O. Kynaston, now Hon. Secretary to Sir Watkin Wynn’s foxhounds,
introduced the hunting caps of brown velvet. Another innovation was a
trap for two guineas a week, which took the hounds to the meet and back,
accompanied by the Master and whips. This, though much abused by the
_Chronicle_, was a good thing on the whole, especially as it enabled Lock
to come beagling regularly, which he might not otherwise have been able
to do.

A. M. Grenfell, now the most successful Master of this period, has sent
me this letter:

“Campbell (E. G. Campbell, Master 1891) died of fever during the South
African War. Ward’s _régime_ was chiefly remarkable for the purchase of
the hound van. It was during a hunt when Ward was Master that I swam
the lake at Ditton. The hare had crossed to the island and the hounds
wouldn’t cross. So I very stupidly gave them a lead, and got a bad go
of ‘flu,’ in spite of being dried in the kitchen by the Duchess of
Buccleuch—aged about 90. Reggie Ward, my whip, died, but Bobbie and his
brother (Sir John) are still alive. They succeeded each other as Masters.”

Grenfell’s successor, W. R. O. Kynaston, has also written to me. He says:

“There was one day I remember well, you will probably find all about it
in the _Field_, hounds changed once or twice, ran straight and right away
from us. I sent ‘the field’ back in time for lock-up and went on with
the whips after them. We got to hounds eventually when it was pretty
dark; there was no sight of the van, and being near Richings Park, Mr.
Meeking’s, went in there; Hume Meeking was whipping in that day. Had our
dinner there, and took hounds back to Windsor in the guard’s van from
Langley station, getting to Windsor station about 9 p.m. Attended the
Head Master next morning, explained the hounds changed hares and went too
fast to be stopped, was told I was responsible, and if we couldn’t stop
the hounds must have smaller ones! Offered to be swished, but had all
‘bills’ stopped for the rest of the Half, instead, much to my disgust.
Hope you will have a good season; best of luck to the Hunt.”

Here is a letter from Sir Edward Davson, third whip in 1894, which
contains two anecdotes of beagling in the nineties:

“I do not know if you are dealing with the question of costume worn,
but, when I first ran with the hounds, I think that the only distinction
between the Master and whips and the field was that the former wore the
existing beagle coat, otherwise wearing ordinary knickerbockers and
colour caps. I think that white knickerbockers and white stocks were
introduced about 1892, and that the hunting caps were introduced by
Kynaston in 1893.

“The kennels in my year were in a miserable part of the town, kept by old
Lock, who also ran a Turkish Bath there, and my recollection of Lock was
that he was to be found either up at the kill, wherever this might be,
dressed in a brown knicker-bocker suit, or else wandering round his own
place dressed only in a very brief pair of scarlet bathing drawers.

“I remember that there was an old lady who lived out Horton way who had
a strong objection to hounds hunting round her place, as she declared
that they disturbed her fowls and ruined the flower-beds in her garden.
We were accordingly requested by the Head not to go near the place, and
did our best to carry out instructions, but on one occasion, when we met
at Datchet, the hare made a bee-line for the place, the hounds in close
pursuit. As we drew near we discovered the lady in command of a force
consisting of two gardeners armed with pitchforks, who endeavoured to
ward off the attack. The hare, however, meant reaching what it evidently
considered a sanctuary, and in the end there was a beautiful kill in the
middle of the lawn, with the old lady rushing up and down screaming, and
the two men brandishing the pitchforks but not knowing what to do with
them, as they were evidently as reluctant to provoke bloodshed (except on
the hare) as we were. A strategic retreat was then carried out, but our
unpopularity became if possible even greater, and I expect that if we had
had occasion to visit the lady again we should have found a battery of
guns masked behind the laurel bushes.

“On another occasion I remember a great run we had from Dorney to Taplow,
where the beaten hare endeavoured to elude us by getting through a
palisade surrounding a private park. One of the whips promptly scaled
the paling, another sat astride on the top and the third lifted up the
hounds, with the result that in a short time we deposited the whole pack
in the grounds. We did not at the time realise that the grounds were
really the private pheasant preserve of an eminent J.P., but, as he
happened at the moment to be taking a walk round to inspect his birds,
he very soon made his presence known by addressing to us a volley of
the most abusive language that I think up to then it had ever been our
privilege to hear. Meanwhile the hounds were busy coursing the pheasants,
and it was only on our pointing out that he was himself causing a
prolongation of his troubles that we all were summarily ejected by the
gate. A letter of complaint to the Head Master caused our appearance
in Chambers a few days later, where we were suitably, if mildly,
reprimanded by the Head and were also requested to write an ample letter
of apology. This was duly done, and apparently so ably that it touched
the heart of our host-by-compulsion, who promptly wrote that he would be
glad to see us again, and invited the Master and whips to go and lunch
with him. All therefore in this case ended well.”

The most successful Masters of this period were A. M. Grenfell, in whose
season fourteen hares were killed in twenty-six hunting days, and G.
Robarts, who in thirty hunting days killed fifteen hares.

Perhaps it would be interesting to some to give the opinions of the
various Masters on Lock and his kennel management.

“I think Lock looks after the hounds pretty well, but a Master must show
to Lock that he (the Master) intends to look after his pack, or Lock may
be inclined to impose.”—A. M. Grenfell, 1892.

“Care ought to be taken with Lock, who does not look after the hounds
satisfactorily, unless he is made to understand that he is _not_ boss of
the show.”—H. B. Creswell, 1894.

“As regards Lock and the hounds, I think there is not much fault to find.
The hounds were always in good condition, and I think he took a great
deal of trouble with them. The way to manage him is to make him clearly
understand that you are boss.”—G. Sanford Hodgson, 1895.

“Lock is very pig-headed!”—G. E. F. Ward, 1896.

“I entirely disagree with many former Masters, who say that Lock looks
after the hounds badly, and I am sure that no beagles could have been
fitter the whole season than these were. The only thing about him is
that he is a bit pig-headed and always wants to feed the hounds on
‘greaves.’”—R. Milvain, 1898.

However, it must be remembered that having no paddock adjoining the
kennels was a terrible drawback, and made the task of keeping hounds fit
and the kennels clean infinitely harder than it would otherwise have been.

Lock must have been an extraordinary character. He used to say to the
whips as they walked along the road: “Pop your whip, Sir; pop your whip,”
every other minute without any reason whatever. Another habit he had was
that of accusing any rustic he met at the end of any sort of a hunt of
“picking up the hare.” He used to threaten the unfortunate individual
with a whip, and the more boys he had round him at the time the more
insistent he was.

Here is an incident of R. A. Ward’s Mastership:

“Hounds bustled her through Mr. Taylor’s covert and were close behind
her, and would without doubt have repeated our feat of the previous week
of killing three hares in one day, when bang! was heard followed by a
volley of oaths from Lock, and we found a sportsman (?), Mr. Haynes by
name, had shot our hare in front of the hounds. Lock immediately called
upon the field to place our shooter in a duck pond which was near; but
the latter thought discretion the better part of valour, making off as
hard as he could go.”

Before we close this period there are two letters to be recorded, the
first from Mr. C. M. Black, first whip in 1896.

“I have been looking over old _Chronicles_ and old photographs—in fact,
to quote from J. K. S., I have been raking the glacier of years gone by,
but really I am afraid my rake has not produced anything very exciting. I
ran with the beagles for four seasons and was in the photograph for three
years. I don’t know whether you still have a photograph, but in my time
one was always taken of the Master, whips and a selection of the ‘first
flighters,’ and when fairly junior one was very pleased at being asked to
come up for the photograph.

“1894 was a fairly good season. H. B. Creswell was Master, the whips
being T. D. Pilkington, who was killed in the South African War, Maurice
Atkinson-Clark at my Dame’s (Hale’s), who died during the same war, and
E. R. Davson. We had some very good runners that year, amongst them
being G. A. Hodgson, D. O. Dunlop, G. D. Baird and Harold Chapman.
The last-mentioned was also at my Dame’s. We always ran together and
were generally near the front. He was fourth and I fifth in the School
Steeplechase that year. In 1895 I turned the tables on him, for I was
third to his sixth. He had left by 1896 when I won it. There were two
‘bills’ that year, the first to Wooburn, the Gilbeys’ place; I did not
go there, but I went to the other—about the end of February—Maiden
Erleigh, the Hargreaves’ place near Reading. We had an excellent day,
killed one hare and should have killed another, but it ‘disappeared’ near
the station after a fast run. I fancy some loafer picked it up! Bear
Hargreaves, as he was called when at Mitchell’s, rode that day (he had
left Eton), and I remember holding on to one of his leathers when I was
getting beat. We were nobly entertained at the house afterwards, and it
was a first rate day altogether, one of the best I can remember.

“In 1895 there was a meet near the beginning of the Half, and then not
another till well on in February. It was the year of the long frost
after ‘the floods.’ I rowed in Trial Eights that year, so I missed the
hunting in the latter part of the Half. G. S. Hodgson was Master, and A.
W. F. Baird, D. O. Dunlop and Jerry Ward the whips that year. Hodgson and
Dunlop were magnificent runners, and were famous for running a dead heat
in the Mile.

“In 1896 Jerry Ward was Master. Poor fellow, he was killed in the late
War. I was first whip, the others being Charlie Cavendish, killed
at Diamond Hill in South Africa, and Timmy Robarts, of whom I have
lost sight. I think we were very unlucky that season. So far as I can
remember, we had a considerable number of days when there was little
or no scent—owing to cold winds and rain. Jerry Ward made an excellent
Master and he knew the country well. He and I had run for several
seasons. He left hounds to themselves and let them work out their line,
and did not continually lift them, as is so often done. We were all very
keen, and I feel sure that with a little more luck we should have had
a good season. As it was, I believe it was one of the worst on record.
We were also very unlucky with fresh hares. I can remember fresh hares
getting up in front of hounds on several occasions when we had our hunted
hare done.

[Illustration: A DISAPPOINTING FINISH.]

“The holes in the Stoke Park palings were a terrible stumbling block in
those days; hares continually used to baffle us by reaching them and
‘safety.’ I don’t know whether they bother you still.

“I remember a good hunt being spoilt by a retriever dog at Langley
Village. It chased our hare into some nursery gardens, in which we
later found it again. A. D. Legard, Robin Lubbock, who died a few years
later from a boating accident, Henry Burroughes and the two Pawsons
were amongst the first flighters that year. I had to row again in Trial
Eights, which cut my season short, and in the photograph of a meet I see
A. D. Legard is carrying a whip—the famous Grenfell brothers are in that
photograph too. Old Lock was going strong all the time, his knowledge of
the country was marvellous, and he always turned up at the right place.
He ran a Turkish Bath too. I used to visit it, as I was bothered with
rheumatism, and the old fellow used to pommel you to bits after the bath.”

The other letter is from H. R. Milvain, Master of the Hunt of his own
name near Alnwick in Northumberland. He hunted the E.C.H. in 1898, the
last year of the High Street kennels.

“1898 was the year I hunted them, my whippers-in being Chapman, A. D.
Pilkington and W. Hodgson. Hodgson was laid up for some time in March,
and one of the Grenfells usually whipped in instead of him. I am sorry
I have no note of the number of hounds I had, but remember had to buy a
few at the beginning of the season from Wilton, the dealer at Hanwell—one
of them in particular, ‘Windsor,’ was a very good hound. Up till and
including my Mastership practically no hounds were bred, and at the end
of the season they were taken away to walk by any fellows who could
manage them, generally returning to kennel some time during the Christmas
Half. I brought about six or seven couples up here during the Christmas
holidays, December 1897, and hunted them here. Lock was still kennel
huntsman, and hounds were kennelled in the town behind his shop, which
wasn’t at all a good arrangement; old Lock did most of the walking out,
etc. I think Grenfell, who followed me, got the new kennels built and
got Champion as kennel huntsman. Lock by that time was getting old, and
couldn’t get about very well. You will probably have the old official
diary with accounts of all the hunts, but if not I’ve got it all down
in my hunting diary and can give you any more information you want if
you let me know. We had a good season and a fair number of hares in most
parts of the country.

“The best days I think were Saturday, February 12th, Shepherd’s Hut.
Found at once and ran fast for 55 minutes, killing in the open. Found
again near river, and running up to Dorney Village turned back over
Dorney Common and killed on river bank opposite Water Oakley in 20
minutes.

“Tuesday, March 12th, Shepherd’s Hut. Found Dorney Common, ran fast for
15 minutes, losing her on river bank near Water Oakley. Found again near
Dorney and ran hard for 1 hour 10 minutes, having to stop hounds in the
dark close to Bray Lock. Had some good days in Hargreaves Park country,
too.”

Right up to this time the E.C.H. was rather a scratch concern. Rowland
Hunt has established it on a proper basis, and many Masters had shown
extraordinarily good sport. But proper kennels and a proper kennelman
were needed, as was a definite standard of height, and in the next
chapter we shall see how all these difficulties were solved by Francis
and Riversdale Grenfell of glorious and honoured memory.

[Illustration: “HOLD HARD!”]




CHAPTER VI.

THE GOLDEN AGE, 1899-1914.


It was in 1899 that the Golden Age of the E.C.H. began. Every hunt has
had its periods of prosperity, and for fifteen years after this date the
sport shown by the E.C.H. was all that could be desired. It was a sudden
and unexpected revival, and it may be said to have been entirely due to
the energy and keenness of Francis and Riversdale Grenfell, the twin sons
of P. du P. Grenfell of Wilton Park, Beaconsfield. The extraordinary
career of these two boys has already been portrayed by John Buchan. Two
more gallant Englishmen never lived. As a life-long friend of theirs
wrote, “I would gladly do anything to keep their memory alive.”

They accomplished three things for the E.C.H. They built the new kennels,
they bought a new pack of hounds, and last, but by no means least, they
secured the services of George Champion as kennel huntsman. And in their
time also the services of the late Mr. R. S. de Havilland were enlisted
as treasurer for the Hunt; services which were invaluable, in spite of
his repeated protests that he had next to nothing to do. A great deal of
work devolved on him; the control of the finance, and the auditing of
the accounts; occasional visits to angry farmers; the task of general
representative of beagling for the Head Master, and the duty of warding
off the attacks of the now defunct “Humanitarian League,” a duty in which
he suffered a great deal of unjust abuse; all these and many other tasks
were patiently and successfully undertaken by him.

The building of the new kennels was the first accomplishment of the
Grenfells. The scheme had been suggested by their brother, R. S.
Grenfell, in 1894; and proceedings had even gone so far as for circulars
to be printed, but difficulties arose as to the Army Examination, and he
had to leave too soon. This brother had been killed at Omdurman in 1898,
but his idea did not die with him, and directly Francis Grenfell was
appointed Master he began the task of raising sufficient money for the
building of real kennels.

[Illustration: FRANCIS AND RIVERSDALE GRENFELL.]

These kennels were an ambitious task for two boys to undertake, for
Rivvy, Francis’s brother, had a big share in the work. Circulars were
sent out to Masters of Hounds asking for money and advice, an appeal was
put in the _Chronicle_, and in a very short time £689 0s. 10d. had been
collected and the building began.

A site was secured from the College authorities for a nominal rent; and
experts were sent to give their advice. Lord Coventry sent the kennel
huntsman of the Queen’s Staghounds. The Head Master (Dr. Warre), the
Bursar, Mr. R. S. de Havilland, the Huntsman and the Twins all proceeded
to the proposed site, and Mr. de Havilland told me he remembered how
Francis, wishing to tip the visitor and having no money on him, boldly
approached Dr. Warre and asked him to lend him a sovereign, which the
Head Master gave with his most amused smile.

The kennels were built on clay on the advice of several Masters of
Hounds. Lord Lonsdale wrote a letter showing how clay and lime should
be put down and how the foundations should be set. Others that gave
advice were Lord Willoughby de Broke, the late Duke of Beaufort, the late
Lord Chesham, Sir Ian Heathcoat Amory, Mr. J. Arkwright and Mr. Godfrey
Heseltine. They were modelled on the kennels of Mr. W. H. Grenfell (now
Lord Desborough), of Taplow Court, where he kept a pack of harriers for
ten years, and where the Old Berkeley Foxhounds were kennelled for some
time. Everything that was defective in the original was corrected in the
copy.

The buildings were finished on February 26th, 1899, and were occupied
a week later. In the meantime a difficulty had arisen about the hounds
remaining at Lock’s in the High Street. So they were removed to a barn
on Agar’s Plough for the time being. It was a great day for the E.C.H.
when on March 3rd they were established for the first time in their own
kennels with their own whole-time kennel huntsman. The building of the
new kennels cost £574 3s. 2d., leaving a balance of £114 17s. 8d. In the
meanwhile an excellent letter appeared in the _Chronicle_ of November
17th, 1898.

    “Dear Sir,—As no small amount of controversy is at the present
    time taking place on the standard of height best suited to
    show sport to a field one and all mounted on shanks’ mare,
    I understand that there will shortly be new kennels at Eton
    maintained by the School in a satisfactory and orthodox manner,
    and I hope in some years they will give shelter to one of the
    best packs of beagles in England. I feel that this might be a
    suitable time to suggest:

        (i) That the Master of beagles should summon a
        meeting of present Etonians and any Old Etonians
        interested in the subject to decide now and for ever
        on the standard of height of the Eton beagles.

        (ii) That this standard should be fixed with a view
        to showing as much sport to their followers as is
        possible in the limited number of hours at their
        disposal.

        (iii) That the matter should be thoroughly thrashed
        out, and that it should not be in the power of
        succeeding Masters to change either the standard
        of height or type fixed for their benefit by their
        predecessors on due consideration.

        (iv) That some ‘standard of type’ of hound should be
        decided upon; whether it be the true beagle type, the
        harrier type with a dash of southern blood, or the
        small harrier type (Lilliputian foxhound).

    “I think this should induce succeeding Masters to adhere to
    some particular type, without which no pack can hope to become
    uniform, much less when a different Master is at their head
    almost every three years.

    “Let us then draw up a standard of both height and type and
    depict on paper an Eton beagle. The rest lies with the Master
    and his kennelman. Let him

                    ‘For ev’ry longing dame select
        Some happy paramour.... Consider well
        His lineage; what his fathers did of old,
        Chiefs of the pack, and first to climb the rock,
        Or plunge into the deep, or thread the brake
        With thorns sharp-pointed, plash’d and briars inwoven.
        Observe with care his shape, sort, colour, size.’

                                                    SOMERVILE.

    “From personal experience I know exactly what it should cost
    to keep a pack of beagles, and I also know that, the more
    carefully your hounds are bred, the more sought after your
    breed and Q.E.D. the less your annual expenses.

    “I hate radical changes in the dear old place, but I am all for
    improvements, and I fail to see how any pack of hounds can be
    properly kennelled in the centre of a town. I dare not trespass
    further, Mr. Editor, on your space, but at some future time
    perhaps I may be allowed to make some few suggestions for the
    ‘walks’ of the future Peterborough winners bred at Eton. I
    apologise for the length of my letter, written with the hope
    that it may inspire the young Nimrod to breed and keep a good
    class of hound, with which even a not overspeedy Etonian may
    possibly see some sport, for

        ‘Tell me, ye gods, if any sounds
        Be half as sweet as t’ hear the hounds.’

    _Nov. 12th._

                                                           W. H. B.”

[Illustration]

The reply to this came on Nov. 30th, when F. Grenfell wrote a long letter
to the _Chronicle_, in which he informs us that

“Having disposed of all last year’s pack, I have bought an entirely new
pack of hounds, 15½ inches and very level. Though some hounds are rather
lacking in good looks, the pack itself are a level lot and very good
workers.”

This pack was obtained from Mr. P. F. Hancock, of Wivelscombe, Somerset,
a well-known follower of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds. There were
13½ couple in all, and the sum paid was £55. The whole of F. Grenfell’s
letter is printed in an appendix at the end of the book.

But what shall I say of Grenfell’s other innovation, the introduction
of George Champion? He is such a well-known figure to all who have
beagled during the last twenty years that it seems superfluous to give a
description of him. And yet, for the sake of those who have never had the
pleasure of knowing him, I cannot resist making the attempt.

He stands about middle height and his hair is white, but this is almost
the only sign of increasing age. His expression is indescribable; he has
a kind of mild good-humoured sarcastic look which seldom leaves him,
and a pair of eyes that seem to notice everything. Although he wears no
distinctive costume his hounds will sight him three or four hundred yards
away, even though he is standing against a tree or a railway arch, and
when they catch sight of him nothing will stop them from galloping to
meet him, unless they are actually hunting.

At the kennels he is always glad to see you, though he may hide his
pleasure under a somewhat gruff voice. He will never open a conversation
on anything except racing or the weather, but he will answer any question
you put to him, and is always willing to help the seeker after knowledge
in anything concerning hounds; and, like all old men who have knocked
about among hounds all their lives, he can spin a yarn with the best.

For who that hears the name of Champion does not immediately think of the
great huntsman of the Zetland? George Champion is his son, and hails from
Yorkshire. He was himself for some years a whipper-in to the Zetland and
to Lord Tredegar’s Foxhounds until he met with an accident rendering fox
hunting for him an impossibility. He can well remember his father hunting
hounds in Cambridgeshire, as well as in the Zetland country, and he has
inherited his knowledge and love of hounds and hunting. All his brothers
possess the same family instinct. A brother was for some time before his
death a few years ago huntsman of the Cheshire. Another brother, Fred, is
now kennelman to a pack of draghounds in Holland. A third, Bob, is first
whipper in to the North Shropshire. It was a great piece of luck that
Francis Grenfell should have been able to secure such a man as George
Champion.

[Illustration: 1.40 P.M.]

G. K. Dunning, Master in 1912, gives him high praise, but every bit of it
is deserved.

“You asked me in your letter about G. Champion. His position as kennel
huntsman to the E.C.H. was, I think, rather a unique one, as in most
cases the Master’s knowledge of kennel management was negligible,[6] and
a great deal of responsibility thus fell on Champion’s shoulders.

“Champion knew his work thoroughly; the Master generally did not (but
thought he did—I speak from my own experience), and small wonder if
Champion was apt to lay down the law to the new Master. He always did
well with the bitches and their whelps in the summer, and had hounds
fit by October, taking them for road exercise on a bicycle with his boy
‘Gidge’ to whip in. After Christmas, when we hunted three or four days a
week, it was no easy job for him to bring out a pack of ten-twelve couple
from a kennel of well under twenty couple. Yet we never seemed to have a
‘short pack’ out. Champion knew the country and the run of the hares, and
was on good terms with the farmers. He was not a great runner, but always
seemed to be there when really wanted. Especially was this the case when
hounds crossed the railway line. He was not a man of polished manners;
his style being more blunt; and any one who did not know him would think
him sulky. And I remember his invariable way of taking an order was with
the words, ‘Ooh, ah!’

“I think you would go a long way before finding a better man for the job
than George Champion.”

Certainly George Champion is not sulky. Blunt he is, but it is his
Yorkshire way, and he is always pleasant. Only the other day a little
incident occurred at the kennels which illustrates this bluntness.

Champion was sitting by his fireside, enjoying a well-earned rest and
planning his daily “doubles.” Hearing what he imagined to be a young
Etonian after eggs (which he always has for sale), he called out, “Hullo,
what do _you_ want?”

“I’ve come to see the hounds,” said a voice.

“Well, go on through then; they ain’t worth looking at.”

“I walked two of them as puppies,” said the voice, this time obviously
that of a lady. Of course Champion was up immediately, only too keen to
display his hounds to the best advantage and full of apologies for his
apparent rudeness.

Champion always has a circle of boys clustered round him on Sunday after
twelves, and it is one of the greatest pleasures I know at Eton to go
to the kennels and talk hunting with him. Once after a good run early
in the present season I had to go and tell a farmer about some cattle
which had broken through a fence in the Ditton country, and I reached the
kennels just in time to see hounds fed after hunting. Afterwards I had
tea with the Champions, and a very good tea too, and when I got up to go
home I found a beautiful ripe apple ready for me to take. We yarned all
the time, and he told me of his Yorkshire days and then of the time he
was with a pack of bassets, “that ’ud run an old woman down a path; I’ve
see’d ’em do it, Sir,” and then also he mentioned the accident that put
an end to his fox-hunting career and which did not occur when actually
hunting. It must have been a great blow to him, especially as he was the
eldest son of so great a huntsman; but he is devoted to beagling now, and
takes an immense pride in his hounds.

Champion, when he was young, was an excellent runner and won a great many
long distance races. To-day he scarcely ever goes out of a walk, but he
is always viewing the hunted hare and is almost always in at the kill. He
knows the run of the hares so well that he is continually getting very
useful views.

[Illustration: A TYPICAL INCIDENT.]

The other day I went to the kennels to try and get him to yarn about the
Grenfells. He was not to be drawn, however, and was much too full of the
defeat of Tishy in the Cesarewitch for me to secure many stories. At last
I asked him how they behaved to each other.

“Ah, there you have me puzzled,” said Champion. “I never knew what to
make of ’em. They used to curse each other somethin’ awful before every
one. But they were good friends at heart, I believe.”

It was singularly hard luck that Francis Grenfell should have been
prevented from beagling after the first three weeks of the Half by a bad
attack of bronchitis. It was typical of his generous manly nature to say
that “being twins it was only right that we should be first and second
and that I should hunt my share and then fall ill and give him his.
Throughout he has been my right hand, and to him as much as to me is due
the honour of having built new kennels to start the hunt on such a firm
footing.”

Grenfell’s other two whips were E. B. Denison and H. K. Longman, son of
the Master of the E.C.H. in 1870 and 1871. To him belongs the distinction
of being the only Master of the E.C.H. who has been the son of a former
Master, with the exception of S. A. Parker, Master in 1917, son of A. E.
Parker, Master in 1882 and 1883. Grenfell’s actual season calls for no
particular comment. No more does that of H. K. Longman, who succeeded
him in office. In fact this season was the worst so far as regards kills
since the new pack was obtained, with the exception of the 1920 season
when the kennels contained only six couples of old hounds. However, at
the end of the Easter Half, 1900, there was a balance of about £300.

It was extremely fortunate that Longman should have been succeeded by
R. G. Howard-Vyse (now Col.), the son of the Master and owner of the
Stoke Place Beagles. Mr. Howard-Vyse (the father) took the champion cup
at Peterborough many times with his beagles, and before Christmas had
the right of hunting over the same country as the E.C.H. His son hunted
the E.C.H. for two seasons and did much to improve the pack. During
his Mastership he obtained leave from the Head Master to hunt first
from St. Andrew’s Day (Nov. 30th) and then from Nov. 15th.[7] He also
made arrangements with his father, who was always exceedingly kind to
the E.C.H. and never made any objections to their hunting previous to
Christmas, arranging his meets so as to avoid clashing with them.

Howard-Vyse used all the balance left over from the expenses of the
two previous years in building a cottage for Champion and in raising
oak palings round the kennel paddock. Both of these innovations were
necessary; it was a good thing that he decided to build a cottage, as
Champion would not otherwise have remained with the E.C.H.

These are Howard-Vyse’s personal recollections:

“It has been great fun to read my accounts over again, but I fear I have
little or nothing to add to them. In fact I can think of two comments
only:

    (_a_) I fancy I was the first Master to get permission for the
    field to come out beagling during the Winter Half; in the year
    after me it was dropped, because the Master was also first
    keeper of the Field; but it was continued afterwards, I see,
    though I don’t know whether it still goes on. It seems rather
    ridiculous to keep a pack of hounds all the year round for nine
    weeks’ hunting.

    (_b_) The running capacities of the staff of my second year
    (1901-1902) were rather a record:

        Self     Winner of Steeplechase 1901.
        Wilson   2nd in          ”      1901.
        Lambert  Winner of       ”      1902.
        Drake    2nd in          ”      1902.

“My first year was undoubtedly a very moderate one; we had some baddish
hounds and it was a shocking scenting season. The second season was much
better, and at the time I thought it very good indeed. But as a matter of
fact I should think, looking back with my present experience, that the
E.C.H. have probably had many even better seasons since.

“This I should put down to an improvement in the hounds, which began
from the time of the Grenfells, two years before me, but did not bear
full fruit till after my time. In this connection it was probably a big
advantage, apart from any personal ability, that in six years there were
only four Masters—myself and Wroughton each twice, and Romer Williams was
a good hound man.

“Before the Grenfell twins the whole thing was a very scratch concern,
and it would be difficult to exaggerate the debt which the E.C.H. owe to
their memory. It requires tremendous push and energy to start the whole
thing on a fresh basis, and to raise £1000 for the purpose, which is what
they did.

“They were the keenest fellows I ever met; devoted to one another really,
but out beagling they constantly cursed one another into heaps. The
first hare I killed in my first season, February 5th, 1901, is the hunt
I remember best. Chiefly because there wasn’t an atom of scent, and I
really ran her to death myself (she must have been very weak!). Hounds
were behind, instead of in front of me, most of the way; and we tracked
and viewed her practically all the way from the Bath Road near Cippenham
to the river at Boveney. There was snow on the ground, and we kept on
seeing her about half a mile ahead on the big fields between Cippenham
and Dorney Common. I nearly ran my inside out; and eventually, when she
was in the river, had to go in up to my middle to get her out.”

If I had to mention any Master whom Champion talks about more than the
others, it would be C. Romer Williams, who hunted the E.C.H. in 1904.
Champion avows that the reason why he was so successful was that he was
not really a first flighter, and by the time he had come up hounds had
had plenty of time to fling for themselves, and then, says Champion,
“he always did the right thing.” It might be claimed that last year’s
Master, T. C. Barnett-Barker, showed excellent sport for the same
reason. Certainly he was never in the first flight, but his patience and
perseverance were inexhaustible, and they seldom went unrewarded.

Mr. Romer Williams writes:

“I had a very nice lot of hounds when I was Master, about twenty couple
as far as I can remember, and only had one real bit of bad luck, having
three hounds killed on the railway near Burnham Beeches station one day.

“I was the first Master to hunt during the Winter Half, but no ‘field’
was allowed, only self and whips. During the Christmas holidays I took
the hounds home to Northamptonshire, and we had great sport, though
they went terribly fast in that grass country. One night, coming home,
Champion got cramp in the stomach and fell off the ‘hound van,’ and I
nearly drove over him and put an end to his career.

“The best hunt I had was from near Butts to Beaconsfield Common—a point
of about eight miles, I suppose. The best day was an ‘invitation’ meet at
Colonel Van de Weyer’s—the other side of the river. We caught the first
hare in the river after a good hunt of about an hour, then a second one
in the open after a very fast and straight twenty minutes or so, and
finally yet a third also in the open after a wonderful hunt of about two
hours. But all this is in the diary, and I may now be exaggerating.

“The invitation meets at Wooburn, Col. Gilbey’s place, always used to
kill me. Those hills were the devil! Col. Gilbey’s son Ronald was my
first whip, and I generally used to throw the horn at him, as he was a
far better runner than I.

“Not many Masters came out as a rule, but Mr. Robeson and Mr. Slater
were fairly regular attendants, if I remember rightly; also ‘Havvy’
on horseback. I never missed a single day all the time I was at Eton.
Seasons 1900-1904.

“I believe my year was the last of the old Norfolk jacket livery, and I
was sorry they changed it—especially the buttons to brass ones. Next time
I come to Eton I will seek you out and will tell you anything else you
want to know. Anyway I’d rather be Master of the E.C.H. than anything
else. Wouldn’t you?”

C. R. H. Wiggin, now joint Master of the Brocklesby Hounds in
Lincolnshire, also sent me his recollections of beagling at Eton.

“I have always been extremely keen about the E.C.H., and can never forget
how much I enjoyed my hunting at Eton. Season 1902-03 A. F. Lambert was
Master, I myself was first whip, K. I. Nicholl second whip, and St. J.
M. Lambert third whip. Archie Lambert was a fine runner, and won the
School Steeplechase, and was a good Master. He was a great athlete, kept
the Field in which XI. I played myself in 1902, and was also in the
Cricket XI. He died in E. Africa; no better fellow ever lived. As far as
I remember, we only had two days’ hunting in the Christmas Half, one of
them a good day; we found a hare in the field behind the kennels, and
after a good hunt killed her in the Moat which runs round Ditton Park. We
had a good season during the Easter Half of 1903, and beagling was then
very popular at Eton. I regret I have no diary, but I remember one day
from Salt Hill railway bridge. We found on Salt Hill, and killed a good
hare after about an hour. We then found again on Salt Hill, and after a
turn round the hill crossed the G.W.R. and leaving Chalvey on our left
and Butts on our right killed her on the G.W. Railway Slough to Windsor.
Time, 1 hour 15 min.

[Illustration: HIS LUCKY DAY.]

“I remember another topping hunt from Salt Hill with Dorney Village
on our right, and killing a good hare in the Thames above Athens, but
I cannot remember if this was 1903 or the year before; I think 1903.
Nicholl and St. J. M. Lambert have not hunted, I think, much since. I am
at present joint Master and huntsman of the Brocklesby Hounds with Lord
Yarborough, who you will know owns them. Of hounds at my time I fear I
do not remember very much. ‘Comrade,’ walked by myself, was an excellent
hare hunter, and so was ‘Ranter,’ both large hounds. ‘Witchcraft’ was
a rare bitch to catch a hare, and ‘Witchery,’ her sister, a good line
hunter. We had a very good invitation meet or two, notably with Gilbey
at Marlow, and, I believe, with Howard-Vyse at Stoke. I remember running
hard one day in 1908 from Remenham to the London Road beyond Colnbrook,
where we lost our hare.”

In 1905, Dr. Warre resigned his position as Head Master of Eton to the
great regret of everyone concerned with the beagles. However he became
Provost and continued his connection with the School. Champion always
swears by him. He used occasionally to go to see the kennels, and always
took a kindly interest in the hunt. It was a severe blow to the hunt
when he gave up, and it could truly say in the words of a contemporary
magazine:

    “Your road joined ours long years ago,
    You found our inmost heart;
    The roads diverge again, and so
        We part.
    We said your work was past, ah no!
    ’Tis you alone are gone:
    The work you did, the debt we owe,
        Live on.”

Indeed his work lives on. He had warded off the most severe attacks of
the Humanitarian League, and he had set the examples for Head Masters to
come. The late Head Master continued the good work, and the Humanitarians
have long since ceased to trouble the E.C.H.

G. W. Barclay, son of E. E. Barclay, who is Master of the Puckeridge
Foxhounds, was a wonderful heavy-weight runner. He was Master in 1909-10,
and had a good season. Champion tells a story of how, at a meet near Bray
on the other side of the river, Barclay found himself confronted by an
enormous dyke. He plunged boldly in, but, being heavy, stuck near the far
side. Champion crossed with difficulty, and by dint of a great deal of
pulling and tugging Barclay emerged on the right side, minus his beagling
shoes. These were finally rescued by Champion, and the hunt proceeded.
Afterwards, when they were sumptuously entertained by, I think, Col. Van
de Weyer, Barclay borrowed a pair of flannel trousers which fitted him
passably well as he stood up. When, however, he sat down to tea there
was a loud crack closely resembling the tearing of flannel, and Barclay
backed hastily from the room amid much confusion on his part and laughter
from the rest of the party.

Previous to Barclay, S. G. Menzies had hunted hounds for two seasons
with signal success, killing twenty-four and twenty-five hares. Not
only was he successful in the hunting field itself, but also he was
extraordinarily popular with the farmers. He used to write and thank the
farmer on whose land was found any hare that gave them a real good hunt.

But Menzies really made his name as a killer of foxes. He hunted five
foxes in all, killing three and running two to ground, one of which was
evicted and killed. The first fox to be killed was on Nov. 17th. Here is
the account in the Beagle Book.

“Went to Dorney after the foxes. We failed to find, however, either
in Dorney Court or in the Water Oakley plantations, but, on drawing a
turnip field at the back of the village, a fox was viewed away, and
getting hounds on close behind raced away over Cippenham Big Field
towards Chalvey Marsh. However, he swung right-handed for Mr. Tarrant’s
land and passed Butts to the Line. Here he headed left for Chalvey and
crossed the Line close by and went to Willowbrook, where he lay down in
a thick fence. Putting him up, he made for the Slough Road, but being
headed doubled back through the pack, over Mesopotamia and into the Lower
Master’s[8] garden, where he got under some logs. However, hounds pushed
him out into Jordan and over the Field, eventually killing a full-grown
cub in the Fives Courts, after a very fast hunt of 30 minutes. Truly a
triumph for beagles. Point of 2½ miles.”

The other great run after a fox found close to Dorney resulted in a kill
in the open close to where he was found after a hunt of 55 minutes, very
fast, in which a great deal of country was crossed.

K. S. M. Gladstone, who still keeps a pack of beagles in the New Forest,
has sent me a letter in which he describes his hunting experiences at
Eton.

“I was third whip to Geoffrey (‘Tim’) Barclay (C.M.W.) during the season
1909-1910. He (Barclay) was one of the very best sportsmen and Etonians
I have ever had the fortune to meet. He was the son of Mr. Barclay,
the present Master of the Puckeridge Foxhounds, and I had the good
fortune also to whip in to him with the T.F.B.[9] at Cambridge before
war broke out. He was always very quiet, but entirely thorough when
hunting hounds, and was a real good judge of a hound himself. During
the War I met him in Flanders, just before he was killed serving with
the Rifle Brigade. He was the same as ever, and from every account as
good a soldier as he was a sportsman and Etonian. I still have a vivid
recollection of a hunt during Barclay’s Mastership. We met at Dorney
Village on March 8th, 1910. We found in Thames Big Field and ran nearly
to Taplow, and then sharp back parallel with the river past Boveney
Church and across Dorney Common to the Sanatorium and over the Golf Links
to Cuckoo Weir Bridge. Here the hare swam the river, which was in high
flood, and ‘made’ the other bank nearly 100 yards lower down stream.
Luckily a punt was handy, and, though we lost more ground (or rather
water) than our hare had, Barclay took two and a half couple of his
best hounds with him, ‘Warwick,’ ‘Leicester,’ ‘Driver,’ ‘Fairplay’ and
‘Dauntless,’ and killed his hare in the paddock on Windsor Racecourse
after a very fine hunting run of an hour and 33 minutes. We had several
other good hunts that season, but the one described above remains more
vivid than some of the others.

“As regards my own Mastership in 1910-1911. It was through no fault of
my own that we had (up till then) a record season and killed 13½ brace
of hares in 36 hunting days. The three whips, L. C. Gibbs, W. P. Browne,
now Master of Lord Portman’s Foxhounds, and W. Holland-Hibbert, were all
experts and just as capable, and probably more so, of killing a hare as
I was. The previous Masters, Menzies and Barclay, had between them bred
from the best hunting strains and moulded a good working pack, all of
which were workers, and this is a great asset in a pack of beagles. No
word of praise can be too high for Champion for what he has done for
the E.C.H. His position is probably unique, as all past and present
Etonian members of the E.C.H. must know, and yet, though he always had
his hounds fit and well, and despite the fact that he practically lived
with them, he was always able to ‘put hounds on’ to the Master and to
render valuable assistance in whipping in and getting some very useful
‘views.’ This is a hard accomplishment to achieve when a kennel huntsman
has to feed and exercise hounds, and when the Master and huntsman has
very little time to get his hounds to know him well and properly, or
to supervise kennel management himself. It was a rare occurrence to
have a sick hound in kennel during the hunting season, and the kennels
themselves were always spick and span and clean. He was good company
always, and I have spent many Sunday and other afternoons in listening
to his yarns of hounds and hunts gone by. I recall well one afternoon
during an Ascot week when I went up to the kennels. Champion had talked
more than usual, and the subject was so absorbing that I quite forgot
about Absence, and had to chase Mr. Booker down Keate’s Lane to try and
explain my absence. The explanation was accepted. Perhaps Mr. Booker had
forgotten that we made rather a mess in his garden where I killed my
first hare with the E.C.H.! The kennels at Datchet still must be the best
beagle kennels in England.

“There is one point I would like to bring up, though it is no concern of
mine. That is the breeding of hounds at Eton. Far too little breeding
seems to have taken place always. It is much more interesting and better
to breed your own hounds from approved working strains than to be
compelled to buy hounds whose hunting qualifications and those of their
sires and dams are usually unknown. There is naturally no great incentive
for a Master, who can only look forward to hunting hounds one season, to
breed a lot of puppies when he may never see them hunt a hare.

“All the same, now the War is over, it is suggested, say for two or three
seasons, that every good hunting bitch be bred from, and good stud dogs
in other packs used, providing of course there are not good stud dogs
within the kennel. Fresh blood is always good, and I know the temptation
of using your own best stallion hound too much. There must be many keen
subscribers to the E.C.H. who would be only too pleased to walk puppies,
and it will add to their keenness immensely to see their own ‘walks’
hunting, and to follow their career as long as they are at Eton. It is
far better, I think, to breed hounds to hunt and not to win cups, and
a bad motive to sacrifice hunting powers for looks, but it is possible
to combine both, and it would be very pleasing for all Old Etonians
interested in beagling, and a great credit to the Master of the E.C.H.,
if he were to produce beagles capable of winning at the annual Harrier
and Beagle Show at Peterborough.

“I had one red-letter day during my Mastership. It was from Remenham
on February 11th, 1911. A hare was found on the plough near the Park,
and after a circle opposite the ‘Bells of Ouseley’ hounds pushed her
away towards Wraysbury station, where the railway was crossed. Without
a semblance of a check Horton village was passed on the right and the
hare swam the River Colne. A fine stretch of grass country lay in front
and hounds were now screaming. Past Wraysbury Butts the line lay over
the Colnbrook Line to Staines Moor, where our hare squatted near Staines
station. Hounds worked up to her, but she kept a straight mask, and
leaving Staines town on her right entered one of the big reservoirs there
and was drowned three minutes in front of hounds after a wonderful hunt
of an hour and fifteen minutes. It was about eight miles as hounds ran
and a five mile point. All the hounds were up at the end, as were only
the keenest of the field; the hound van had managed to get up to us,
and we took as many back to Eton as we could _in it_ and on top of it,
while the late Mr. P. J. de Paravicini loaded his pony cart with as many
boys as possible. The rest got back to Eton ‘somehow,’ a little late
for lock-up perhaps, but it was worth it. I warned m’tutor, Mr. R. S.
de Havilland, who was then Hon. Treasurer and Secretary of the E.C.H.,
that he might have some complaints the next day, and that I was to
blame, as I forgot in the excitement of the hunt to send the field home.
But nothing happened, and it goes to prove that the E.C.H. field is an
orderly and sensible one, which does not take advantage of its freedom
but appreciates it and its responsibilities.

“When I was Master I had several letters from the Humanitarian Society,
and anonymous ones, no doubt emanating from the same source. The
former were replied to after good advice given by the Head Master,
Dr. Lyttelton, and m’tutor, Mr. de Havilland. The anonymous ones were
destroyed! If hare hunting or hunting of any form is to be stopped, I am
sure Eton will be the last to give in. Its advantages are so many and so
well known that it would be a waste of time to quote them, but I feel
that the ‘kill-sports’ think they have an easy prey in attacking College
and School packs, while they practically ignore the many other hundreds
of packs of hounds in the United Kingdom.

“The size of the hounds at Eton has always been a great source of
discussion. You have only, say, two and a half hours on a short winter
afternoon to find, hunt and kill your hare, and while 16 and 17-inch
hounds do not allow many people to see them hunting, a 14-inch hound is a
little too small to give the Master a fair chance to handle his hare in a
short time with a large eager field behind him and maybe a moderate scent.

“I would advocate a 15-inch hound as a standard size for the E.C.H.
My father gave me leave to start a small pack at home in 1908. It
consisted of two and a half couples kindly given me by Mr. George Miller,
originally Master of the Spring Hill Beagles. It grew to seven or eight
couples, and during the holidays of 1908, 1909, 1910 we had great fun in
Essex, with two sporting farmers to whip in, and killed 27 hares in 65
hunting days. The E.C.H. came home one Christmas holidays, and we had the
hound van, which was drawn by two grey carriage horses and looked most
imposing. Old Mumford, who had a pub. near Windsor Bridge, and who was
the keenest follower of all of the E.C.H., stayed with us these holidays,
and was greatly liked by all. The above took place at Braxted in Essex.

“We have still got a pack and hunt the New Forest in Hampshire. The pack
belonged to the late Sir Frederick FitzWygram, himself an Old Etonian,
and was known as the Leigh Park Beagles. They are a splendid lot. Last
year we killed 17½ brace of hares in 44 days. The Forest hares are
strong, and we hardly ever killed one under the hour, and it often took
two hours.”

One day from Dorney Gate the E.C.H. burst up four hares, none of which
were actually chopped. This is a record, and is likely to remain one, at
Eton.

Some Masters used to take the hounds home with them in the holidays.
Romer Williams, Gladstone and Gibbs did this, and hounds fairly raced in
the Pytchley country where Romer Williams lived. Champion does not like
taking the hounds away from Eton nowadays, but prefers to find someone in
the district to hunt them. For the last two years they have been hunted
by Mr. Judd, who lives close to Stoke Poges, and handles hounds with
considerable ability.

G. K. Dunning (who only gave up the Mastership of the Trinity Foot
Beagles last season) created what was up till then a record for hares
killed. He accounted for 33 hares and one fox in 45 hunting days. He has
sent me some details of his beagling days at Eton.

“One day we went to Fifield Cross Roads on the other side of the river,
Col. Van de Weyer having as usual kindly given permission.

“Late in the afternoon, after a fair day’s sport, hounds picked up a line
which at first we all thought to be a hare’s. But as they went on and
got closer to their quarry the old hounds began to get their ‘hackles’
up, and a few minutes later they ran into a fox in the middle of the
village—a fortunate release for him, as he had had a trap on his leg,
poor thing. The sporting Rector of the place was passing at the time (it
is Garth F.H. territory) and was horrified at seeing a fox pulled down
like this, but was satisfied when we showed him the trap.

“This meet at Fifield was a very good one, and we generally went there on
whole holidays with about a dozen specially invited beaglers in a second
horse-brake. Col. Van de Weyer was always very good about giving leave,
and generally sent a mounted groom to stop hounds from the fox coverts on
the hill.

“The best bit of country was on the river side of the road, nearly all
grass. I had a very good day there in my season. The first hare hounds
caught in the river after 25 minutes, but she sank and was not recovered,
though St. George dived for her several times. The next hare was killed
on the golf course after 1 hour 15 minutes. Very pretty hunting, and a
third was also accounted for after a short hunt.

“The other two bits of the country I liked best were Dorney (Village
and Gate) and Remenham. There was generally a fox at Dorney beyond the
village, and we killed one there in 1913, but without much of a run.

“I think trying to catch a fox with beagles (unless it is a very bad
fox or a cripple, both of which should be killed) is an unsatisfactory
game, as hounds always take some time to settle down again to a hare. I
remember hearing complaints just after the War that the Motor Dépôt at
Salt Hill would cut a very large and important slice out of the E.C.H.
country. Personally I should have been quite glad never to have hunted
there at all, owing to innumerable hares and the risk of the G.W.R. main
line. At the same time Mr. Christie-Miller of Britwell was always glad
to see the E.C.H., but certainly before the War the number of hares was
heart-breaking. Talking of the railway reminds me of the only occasion
where I saw a hound of the E.C.H. killed on the line. It was in Gibbs’
season, and hounds had checked by the railway bridge at Remenham. We
heard a train coming, and as it approached were sure that hounds were
‘all on.’ But May and I had made a mistake, and one puppy had gone across
into the little spinney beyond the line, and now came back right under
the train.

“But after hunting near the G.W.R., with its express every two minutes,
it was maddening to lose a hound on the Datchet Line. Yet this is just
what happened with the Trinity Beagles at Cambridge before the War. The
accident happened on the rotten little line to Mildenhall!

“As regards the Masters at Eton who came out, I can remember seeing
Messrs. Dobbs, Churchill, Slater and Young, but the most regular beagler
was Mr. Dobbs.

“Reference will have been made by my predecessors to the late Mr. R.
S. de Havilland for all he did for the E.C.H., not only in keeping the
finances straight, but in taking ‘bills off absence’ to distant meets
on whole holidays, and often I fear putting himself to considerable
inconvenience by doing so.

“I remember in my year we had run a hare from Dorney at a great pace and
killed in his garden, hounds had broken up their hare, and only a very
mauled pad was saved, which I did not think worth having set up for him.
However, he was anxious to have something to mark the event, so Jefferies
in the High Street did his best, and I hope the moth has not yet got into
it.

“The E.C.H. had one thick-and-thin supporter before the War in ‘Old Mum.’
Mr. Mumford kept a public near the Bridge. As far as I remember, he never
missed a day, nor did anyone ever see him run, yet he was always viewing
the hunted hare and was invaluable. We used to take him on the hound van
for long distance meets, and I hope he goes beagling still. He was one of
the best.

“In conclusion I may say that it is a great relief to know that the
E.C.H. is on its legs again and showed such good sport last season. The
packs at Oxford and Cambridge will now be able to staff themselves from
‘old hands,’ and that means a lot. If one can offer any advice to future
Masters of the E.C.H. (and it certainly seems presumptuous), I would
say, try and spend more time with hounds in the kennels and at exercise,
and get to know your kennel management thoroughly. And, if it ever is
possible, get the pack into the stud book.”

There was one disastrous incident in L. C. Gibbs’ year, 1911-12, which
Dunning has described for me.

“_The Stoke Park Tragedy._ We had met at Salt Hill, I think, and after
one circle hounds hunted their hare into Stoke Park, where they checked.
(Here let me say that there are fallow deer in the Park, that the ground
was very soft, particularly the putting greens, and that a ‘medal round’
was being played on the course.)

“Well, a herd of deer was close by and suddenly took fright and galloped
off. Up went hounds’ heads, and then the fun began. Some one was out with
us on horseback, I think S. G. Menzies, a late Master of the E.C.H.,
and he did everything in his power to stop them, as they drove the deer
round and round the golf course and across the greens, to the horror of
the players. Finally they divided, and, while the Master got to one half
as they were swimming their quarry in the lake and stopped them, I found
three or four couple had pulled down, a deer in the wood behind the club
house.

[Illustration: G. K. DUNNING’S YEAR. 1913.]

“Getting hounds together the Master left the Park as soon as possible,
but that did not by any means close the incident as far as the golf
club authorities were concerned, and I think the hunt paid substantial
damages.”

The season 1913-14 is the record one up to date. C. C. Hilton Green
was Master till Christmas, and afterwards R. D. Crossman, son of Mr.
D. Crossman, the present joint Master of the Cambridgeshire Foxhounds.
Thirty-eight hares were killed in 49 hunting days.

How can I end this chapter better than by quoting the description of the
best run the Eton Beagles ever had, with a point of seven miles? It took
place in 1904, when Romer Williams was Master.

“Tuesday, March 8th, was a day to be remembered, from the Prince of
Wales. We found a hare directly, but lost her near the Sanatorium after
20 minutes. Found again in a plough near Eton Wick, and they fairly raced
away straight as a die up to Headington’s Farm. Here we met our hunted
hare coming back, with ‘Crafty’ in close attendance, who shortly killed
her. Meanwhile the pack had gone on with another hare as hard as they
could go, and quite straight past Headington’s to the G.W.R., and over
that past Atkins’ to the top of Lynch Hill, where they checked for the
first time. We then seized the opportunity of breaking up ‘Crafty’s’
hare, and then going forward we put up a hare in the next field and
ran like the devil himself straight over to Burnham Beeches, leaving
Farnham Royal on our right. Through the Beeches they went and on to
Beaconsfield Common, where we whipped off as soon as we could, as some
hounds were still in the Beeches. Eton Wick to Beaconsfield is seven
miles as straight as the crow flies, with absolutely never a turn. Time,
75 minutes.”

Champion has told me that this was quite the best hunt he has ever seen
with beagles, and I doubt whether many better runs could be found in any
of the records of hare hunting in the British Isles.

[Illustration: HIS MASTER’S VOICE.]




[Illustration]




CHAPTER VII.

THE WAR AND THE FINAL TRIUMPH.


When the war cloud broke over Europe in the summer of 1914 the E.C.H.
was in a very flourishing condition. During the season 1913-14 38 hares
had been killed, which remains a record for the pack. There was every
prospect of a good year to follow, especially as R. D. Crossman was to
have stayed till the end of the Easter Half, and he had already hunted
the hounds with considerable success.

But all this was changed. Crossman and R. W. G. Dill, his first whip,
both got commissions. They left at Christmas. Crossman closed the Journal
Book in the following way:

“I think it is rather hard luck on Dill and myself having to leave, but
country comes even before hunting, and I only hope this infernal war will
end soon.”

He went out to fight and was killed. His whip Dill went right through the
War but emerged unhurt. Few more promising hound men ever existed than R.
D. Crossman, but, like many another, he gave up everything to serve his
country.

G. G. Cox-Cox, Crossman’s second whip, stayed until Christmas 1915, and
was succeeded by W. A. D. Eley in the Easter Half. Both the seasons
1914-15 and 1915-16 were fairly successful, though in the latter only
nine hares were killed. The war-time conditions were of course very
difficult. Little breeding took place, and consequently the pack
decreased in size. The food also was inferior; but Champion always had
the hounds fit and ready for work. Owing to the E.C.O.T.C. parading every
Thursday the beagles were only able to hunt two days a week in the Easter
Half.

During a hunt about this time a very promising young bitch was killed on
the railway line close to Remenham. I mention this because it has been
my misfortune on the very day I am writing this to see for the first
(and I hope the last) time a hound run over by a train. The accident was
unavoidable. All the whips were 300 yards behind and the train came out
of a mist. Poor Ranter was cut in two, and it was a miracle that the
whole pack was not destroyed. From time to time these accidents have
occurred, especially often at this place (on the bridge at Remenham), and
future Masters will do well when hunting this part of the country to have
several fellows always on the line, because hares invariably cross it.

Mr. A. Knowles, first whip in Easter Half 1915, has supplied me with the
following information:

“As far as I can remember the Prince of Wales came out with us twice
during the Michaelmas Half of 1914. Once a meet at the Sanatorium and
once at the Queen’s Head, Bray. If there is no note of it in the Beagle
Book Champion will remember the details. In the Easter Half of either
1914 or 1915, from a meet at Datchet, we got mixed up with the Windsor
Drag. The hare crossed the line of the drag. Some of the drag hounds
continued with the beagles, and I think that an odd couple or so of the
beagles joined the drag hunt. Anyhow I remember shutting up about three
couple of the drag hounds in Datchet on the way back to kennels in the
evening, and sending a message for them to be fetched.

“In 1912 there was a very good hunt, which ended with the hare swimming
out and drowning in a reservoir at Staines. Another time I remember
having a good hunt somewhere in the neighbourhood of Ditton. We lost the
hare in a garden, and found her eventually in a basement cellar. I think
that was in 1914 Easter Half, but I am not certain. I hunted hounds one
day Easter 1915, meeting at the ‘Prince of Wales’ on the Slough Road.
We found immediately, circled round by Butts back to the ‘Prince of
Wales’ field, then the hare ran the Slough Road to the ‘Burning Bush,’
down Common Lane to the Drill Hall, and was picked up ‘stone cold’ by
some Coldstream Guardsmen who were having a lesson in map reading by
the bridge over Jordan. Of course the hare was lost, as far as we were
concerned, because I was not informed of her fate until too late.

“In 1913 Michaelmas Half, from a meet at the Sanatorium, the hare ran up
the Racket Court field (next to Walpole House) from South Meadow and was
killed in the garden of Booker’s House opposite the old Fives Courts.”

To all who admire and follow the career of the Prince of Wales it will
be of interest to know what is written of him in the Journal Book by R.
D. Crossman. There had been a splendid hunt of 1 hour 5 minutes when the
hare had squatted. It was, however, 20 minutes before she was put up and
killed.

“The Prince of Wales was again with us, and he runs really well. He
thoroughly enjoys every bit of sport, and is always willing to turn
hounds, etc. It was he who spotted our last hare squatting, after at
least five of us had walked over her.”

In the Michaelmas Half of 1916 R. F. Goad hunted hounds, and was
succeeded at Christmas by H. K. M. Kindersley, whom I vaguely remember
nearly tripping me up in the High Street when he was in “Pop” and
intended to fag me in the street. One day during his Mastership two
hares, which were running together in front of hounds, were both killed
by an express train near Burnham station. After the season, which was not
a particularly good one, only 12 hares being killed in 21 hunting days,
the hounds were all walked by various people. Champion went to work on
the land at a neighbouring farm.

They were collected again at the kennels at the beginning of the
Michaelmas Half, 1917, after a great deal of correspondence. Many of them
were terribly fat, and it was greatly to Champion’s credit that he got
them fit for hunting at all. Not only this, but up to Christmas they had
quite a successful season under the Mastership of S. A. Parker. Parker’s
third whip, the Marquess of Worcester, was also Keeper of the Fives
Courts. He now hunts his own pack of foxhounds in the Badminton country
on the Wilts and Gloucester border. His father, the Duke of Beaufort, was
a keen follower in the sixties.

At Christmas the hounds were definitely dispersed. It was, in the
opinion of many, a great mistake, as probably they could have been kept
up cheaper at Eton than by various people who kindly consented to walk
couples. The Rev. C. A. Alington, who had succeeded Canon Lyttelton as
Head Master in January 1916, wrote to the Food Controller for his advice
and instructions, and in consequence the pack was disbanded.

There was even some talk of Champion leaving and of getting up a
subscription for him. As Parker has said in the Journal Book, there would
have been no lack of subscribers. Fortunately, however, for the hunt,
Champion did not leave, but remained until the hounds were restarted in
December 1919.

Immediately after the War was over there were many letters to the _Eton
College Chronicle_, demanding that the beagles should be restored. O.E.’s
from every part of the country wanted to know the real state of things.
It shows how much the E.C.H. was held in esteem that so many, who had
ceased from taking any active part in the administration of the College,
should have realised that the restitution of hunting at Eton was a thing
highly desirable in itself and in its result.

The first of these letters appeared in the _Chronicle_ of Dec. 5th, 1918.
It ran as follows:

    “Dear Sir,—Now that hostilities have ceased ought not the Eton
    Beagles to be got together and start hunting once more? If
    steps were taken at once to collect the hounds (which are now
    out at walk) the School would have occupation and exercise next
    Half.

    “Very few boys have had much chance to learn anything about the
    sport of kings during the War, and the Eton Beagles have always
    been the nursery of a large number of Masters of hounds in this
    country.

                             “Yours truly,

                   “THREE EX-MASTERS AND TWO EX-WHIPS OF THE E.C.H.”

This was answered by the Master, E. V. Rhys, in a letter in which he
stated that after a long discussion it had been decided not to hunt owing

    (i) To the expense of food, etc.;

    (ii) To the Cippenham works and their possible effect on the
    E.C.H.

During the Michaelmas Half 1919 J. F. de Sales La Terrière took the
matter in hand, and he may now have the satisfaction of knowing that it
was entirely due to him that the E.C.H. has again been set on its legs.
He confronted the Head Master on several occasions and eventually secured
his permission to collect the hounds. Circulars had been sent to all the
farmers, and practically no unfavourable replies had been received. The
Head Master made three stipulations: that the Hunt must not be subsidized
from outside, that no Lower Boys should run, and that hunting should
close on March 20th.

Experience has subsequently proved that the Slough Motor Dépôt has not by
any means spoiled the hunting country of the E.C.H. True it has had the
effect of putting an end to hunting in the Salt Hill country, but many
old Masters have expressed their opinion that they would never willingly
have hunted there at all owing to the danger of the railway to hounds.

La Terrière had to surmount many difficulties in his work of getting the
hounds back. He has told the story in his own words in the Journal Book:

“As we were in a muzzled area, I went down to the Police Station to find
out if there were any restrictions about hunting. They were decidedly
vague about the whole affair, but advised me to write to the Board of
Agriculture and Fisheries to find out if a permit was necessary or not.
This I did, and on receiving no answer from them I got leave to go up to
Town and stir them up a bit. When I got there I was told that I could
collect the hounds from unmuzzled areas, but as we were in a special area
we were on no account to hunt them.

“This at first seemed to be the final stroke of bad luck against the
hunt, and at that time there was apparently no chance of restarting them
in the Easter Half, owing to the fact that there would be no person
left who knew anything about the country. But nothing daunted I decided
to collect the pack here, because, if the muzzling order came off in
January, as was expected, they would be ready for hunting.

“When I started to collect them, I discovered that I could only get
very few here owing to the accursed muzzling order, and also to certain
unaccountable circumstances. ‘Bellman,’ ‘Cautious’ and ‘Comrade’ were
in muzzled areas and could not be shifted. ‘Bruiser’ had died a natural
death. Mrs. Barnard had knocked ‘Spinster’ on the head, as she had grown
too old and fat. The hound ‘Rambler,’ which had been adopted by Champion
in 1916, walked away as curiously as he had come. But the final blow came
when I heard that a boy, Gage, had sent out to Germany both ‘Caroline’
and ‘Grappler,’ as he thought the E.C.H. had finally stopped. This
naturally reduced the pack considerably, and, had it not been for the
kindness of Mr. St. George, we could never have hoped to carry on. Mr.
St. George, whose son was killed in France, and had been a whip in 1912,
presented the hunt with two young couple by ‘Whitby’ out of ‘Melody,’
both of which had formerly belonged to the E.C.H. and had been given to
him. If these shape as well in the field as they do in the kennels, we
ought to be able to carry on till better times come.

“‘Havvy’ (the late Mr. R. S. de Havilland) managed to persuade Glyn to
stay on for one more Half so as to be Master. He is the last of the old
stagers. I mean by that that he is the last person who was noticeable
before the hounds were stopped in 1917. I wish him the best of luck,
though I fear he will have a tough job. _Floreant canes Etonenses._”

And so, in the following January, some two hundred Etonians were once
more treated to the delights of beagling after a lapse of three years
since Parker hunted the E.C.H. It was not a good season so far as regards
kills. How could it have been with only seven couples of old hounds in
the kennels? But some wonderfully good runs were provided, and I remember
after one good day returning an hour and three-quarters late for lock-up.
F. M. G. Glyn, the Master, was a good runner, and beagling became very
popular. Only three hares were killed in all, two of them on one day. The
first of these was killed in the boys’ part of Mr. Marten’s house, to the
immense delight of the owner. Another hare was killed in a garden close
to Chalvey Grove, and I remember an old woman trying to sweep hounds away
with a broomstick.

Here I will give the personal reminiscences of T. C. Barnett-Barker,
Master in the season 1919-20, which will bring us right up to date, and
will describe better than any words of mine the final triumph of hunting
at Eton and the situation of beagling to-day.

“During my first two years at Eton (1915 and 1916) I was a Lower Boy.
To a Lower Boy beagling is generally forbidden, and consequently only
rumours reached me about the beagles. Once or twice I was fagged to
kennels, but I only took a furtive glance at the hounds.

“My third year, when the customary notice came round asking for the names
of prospective beaglers, I decided to make the experiment. This decision
was not made without a feeling of misgiving, as I thought it more a sport
for my elders and betters, because in those days all the ‘celebrities’
beagled, or so it seemed to me at the time. Some of my friends took me to
the first meet, and I remember being haunted by the childish yet awful
idea that I might do something wrong. However, one soon learnt there was
not much time for doing wrong, the only necessity being to try to keep up
with hounds.

“Vaguely I remember struggling and inwardly praying for a check. When at
last I did catch up, it was generally time to go home, unless one wished
to violate the laws of lock-up. As yet I was not one of those ‘bravos’
who cared little for their tutors and lock-up, yet inwardly admiring
them and longing to be one of them. And so it was that with persistent
regularity I used to reach my house just as the lock-up bells broke out.

“The after-sensations of a day’s beagling are hard to describe, but
all who beagle with a true heart know the infinite joy of sitting in a
comfortable armchair by a warm fire just ‘thinking it over.’

“Before the end of my first season I had made friends with the kennel
huntsman, of whom more hereafter, and even began to criticise inwardly
the Master and whips, so conceited was I.

“Mentioning whips, I remember one day, when nearly all the field had gone
home after a poor day, we found a hare which took us a two mile point
before we checked. When I arrived on the scene I remember the Master
saying, ‘Congratulations, you may have your whips.’ From that day the
height of my ambition at Eton was fixed.

“The War was now in full swing, and the authorities bowed to the demands
for economy by demanding that the pack should be disbanded, or, more
accurately, sent out to walk. It was not for me to criticise, but it was
never quite clear to me how economy was effected, all that happened being
that the hounds were overfed individually instead of being economically
fed as a pack.

“During this awful period I often used to walk to the forsaken kennels on
Sunday and ‘talk hunting’ with Champion, the huntsman. At last the War
was over, and before long the survivors of the old field began to talk
about reassembling the pack.

“At first every one seemed against it, though probably this was more
fancy than fact. Old Etonians were not silent on our behalf: they signed
petitions, wrote letters, and in fact did all they could do. Probably it
all helped, and the Head Master met them half-way, and said his decision
would rest on the goodwill of the farmers, which he proposed to ascertain
by sending a letter to each of those over whose ground we normally hunted.

“The result of those letters was that 97% of the farmers were not only
willing but anxious to have the beagles back. It was not until it fell to
my lot to visit these farmers, as representative of the E.C.H., that I
quite realised the reason for so much generosity on their part.

“The next difficulty was to find a suitable Master. Several enterprising
individuals offered their services, and finally a Master was chosen from
amongst the few left who had been at all conspicuous in the old field.

“Just as things looked brighter, and five couples of old hounds had been
collected, we were put in the Rabies area, and only by the individual
efforts of my predecessors did we finally get a permit to hunt. The first
official hunt was a surprise to every one; the surprise being the field,
it seemed as if all Eton had turned out, in reality about 400. Of these
400 nearly all were what, for want of a better term, I got to know as the
‘Middle Class.’ By this term ‘Middle Class’ I mean neither the very small
nor the very big, and all celebrities were conspicuous by their absence.
This gave me extreme satisfaction, for I felt that all who were out were
out to see the sport, and not to disport before their humbler brethren.

[Illustration: T. C. BARNETT-BARKER’S YEAR. 1920-21.]

“Cutting the story short, we had runs which would do credit to any five
couple of old hounds, but somewhat naturally we could not kill, and the
result was that the field dwindled, until only the keenest were left.

“Near the close of the season I was made third whip. My summer was spent
in selfishly hoping the other whips would leave before next season, which
they most kindly did do, and I entered the winter (1920) as Master.

“Thanks to the kindness of certain benefactors and by dint of judicious
buying, we now had 13 couples of hounds, and my hopes rose accordingly.

“I soon found in Mr. R. S. de Havilland, the Treasurer, the kindest and
most sympathetic supporter. He gave me the impression that, whatever
might go wrong and whatever every one else thought, he would always be on
my side and ready to back the beagles against any one. From him I soon
mastered what I might call the ‘etiquette’ of the hunt, and all the small
delicacies which surrounded it.

“The practical side came from another quarter, and in the shape of none
other than the renowned kennelman, Champion. He is probably one of the
most delightful and certainly the most entertaining character I came
across. Many a day I used to go up to kennels to listen to him tell
stories. The seriousness which accompanied the most obvious remarks was
a continual source of delight. A riddle of his about the Mayor of Cork I
shall never forget, but unfortunately it was quite unrepeatable.

“No one could pass old Champion without an allusion to his family. At
present they number four, and include himself, his wife, a son and a
small daughter. No one could be more obliging and kind-hearted than Mrs.
Champion, always ready to offer you a seat by a warm fire, and in fact
to do those hundred and one things that ‘always count.’ As to George, I
remember him before the War stopped us, when, though far younger than any
of us, he used to keep going all day and never give in; after the War he
seemed almost grown up and became like an auxiliary whip to me, his help
at times being quite indispensable. He could run and keep up better than
our best, and none of us were keener sportsmen. Lastly, though only a
T.Y.O. filly, the youngest member already knows all the hounds by name,
and they certainly all know her, willingly offering their backs for a
ride.

“Well, to leave this wonderful family I go back to where we found them.
I soon learnt from Champion my first duty was to visit all the farmers
over whose land we hunted, some thirty in all.

“Starting with those near home, I at once discovered a most agreeable
fact, for they were all so kind and generous that I soon realised why it
was that only 3% had any objection to us restarting after the War. One
day I am going to farm myself, so we had a good ground for conversation
that helped to break the ice after an informal introduction. It was then
that I got to know them, and knowing them meant liking them.

“I cannot pay these farmers a greater tribute than to say that no one of
them ever showed me anything but the greatest civility and kindness. Of
course, some pointed out perfectly legitimate annoyances, but they never
showed any bitterness in expressing them. It is with a certain feeling of
bitterness that one realises that all we give in return to these farmers,
who offer their crops to trample and hedges to break, is a brace of
pheasants and a hare if they are lucky.

“Of course I could fill a book with accounts of our sport that winter,
but I must confine myself to a few remarks. Any success we had when I was
Master was not due in any degree to me, but to the hounds. I believe all
the joy of beagling, and its value as a sport, is to watch the hounds
work, and with a good pack the less the Master interferes the better, and
then only when the hounds seem to look to him for help. Of course I am
prejudiced, but our pack seemed to me close on perfection by the time we
reached the Easter Half: steady, obedient and fast; to watch them spread
like a fan at a check and then a whimper (no babblers, mind!), and all
the pack were away again raising their enchanting song.

“I never wanted a show pack; what I wanted were good noses, good bone,
good feet. Noses they certainly had, and the way the eight season bitches
stayed was enough indication of bone and feet. We try to keep the pack
between 14½ inches and 15½ inches, as this will give a pace which allows
all to see a good share of the run, and it also allows one to kill hares,
and, since all packs seemed to be judged (in my opinion quite wrongly)
by the number of hares they kill, it follows you must have speed in your
pack. This is especially the case when hares are too numerous, and unless
you press your hare continually a change is inevitable.

“Before finishing I should like to add a word about the rumour which at
one time was rampant, that half the beaglers spent their time in smoking
and other divers amusements. All I can say is that, whatever foundations
there were for starting the rumour (it started long before my time),
there is certainly very little reason for going on with it.

“The popularity of beagling amongst Masters, boys, farmers, and even
outsiders, is very fast on the increase, and may beagling at Eton one day
fulfil my most extravagant dreams, for I assure you there is no better
training for mind and body to be got anywhere for the modest sum of two
pounds.”[10]

To T. C. Barnett-Barker it is impossible to render sufficient praise.
His interest in the E.C.H. was whole-hearted. He was not a great
runner. He had not a particularly good hound voice. But nevertheless,
his perseverance and keenness overcame everything, and he provided
the only thing necessary to render beagling at Eton as popular as it
has ever been, a really good season. To kill 36 hares in 49 hunting
days with a pack consisting largely of eight season hounds is a
great achievement.[11] But this is what he did, and now it will be
comparatively easy for future Masters to continue showing good sport.

During Barnett-Barker’s Mastership Mr. R. S. de Havilland, who had filled
the post of Treasurer since 1899, expressed his intention of resigning.
He was presented with an illuminated address by the hunt. I have already
mentioned how much he had done for the beagles. His death has caused a
vacancy at Eton which it is impossible to refill, and the E.C.H. has lost
its best friend. No stauncher supporter ever existed. _Requiescat in
pace._

Mr. E. V. Slater has taken on the duties of Treasurer, and has already
proved himself to be a worthy successor to his great predecessor.

And what of Champion? Or should I say of the Champions, for the family
now consists of four? Champion married in 1903, and the family besides
himself are his wife, than who no kinder or more courteous woman ever
existed, his son George, who with the blood of so many huntsmen in his
veins is certain to prove his worth, and who is already showing that
he is inheriting his father’s knowledge and love of hounds, and his
five-year-old daughter Marjory, to whom the hounds are always ready to
lend their backs for a ride. Those readers who have ever had the pleasure
of knowing Champion will be pleased to hear that he ran third in the
veterans’ race at the police sports at Aylesbury, and could have been
first, only he went for the third prize, a spacious and very comfortable
walnut chair.

During this Michaelmas Half, season 1921-2, the hounds have shown very
fair sport, in spite of an execrable scent on dry hard land, and have
killed eleven hares. Thanks to the very kind loan of six couples of
hounds by Capt. E. C. Portman, the pack is well up to the standard of
last year’s, and every one can look forward with optimism to the future.

How can I end this history more appropriately than by the words which
have closed every season’s beagling in the Journal Book for the last
twenty years, and portray the hopes of any one who has ever hunted with
the E.C.H.?

                       _FLOREANT CANES ETONENSES._

[Illustration: THE KILL.]

[Illustration: MAP OF COUNTRY HUNTED BY E.C.H.]




[Illustration]




PART II.




CHAPTER I.

HARES.

_By Major Arthur T. Fisher._


It would be indeed regrettable if our British hare were exterminated;
yet, some thirty years ago, such seemed by no means impossible, for our
stock was so rapidly diminishing that it was with difficulty that the
Committee of some coursing meetings could make their arrangements. But
since that time normal conditions have returned, and hares are to-day
apparently as abundant as before the passing of the Ground Game Act.

Hares afford a large amount of sport, to say nothing of their value as
most excellent food. To the lovers of Natural History their habits and
ways are full of interest. For several years my home was situated at the
foot of the Wiltshire Downs, where I rented a long strip of shooting,
some two or three miles in length, and so had ample opportunity afforded
me of studying their habits.

It seems that we have at least some four distinct varieties of the hare
in Britain. First, there is the comparatively small hare of the Midlands,
perhaps more valuable for its edible qualities than for sport; the marsh
hare, better for sport than table; the large long leggy hare of the
Downlands, and the blue mountain hare of Scotland, which turns nearly to
quite white in winter.

Many years ago I wrote and published a work entitled _Outdoor Life in
England_. At the present time it is out of print, though I have some
idea of republishing it in an abridged and less expensive form. In it I
dealt somewhat at length on the subject of hares, and it seems that I can
hardly do better than quote some portions at the present time.

Hares love to squat on the hillsides out of the wind, and with their
heads to it; east and west winds are those to which they least object,
but, when a cold northerly or a rain-laden southerly wind prevails, they
betake themselves off to the hedgerows and coverts. The barest looking
ground is often selected by them; and a hole, scratched out on the
leeward side of a molehill or a broken bank, affords comfortable shelter;
and there, unless disturbed, they will sit throughout the day, asleep
with wide-open eyes, or survey the world around them until it is time to
caper off to supper in the turnips.

The ears of a hare are singularly adapted for hearing—more especially,
sounds from behind them. The size and position of their eyes enable them
to see around and behind them. Strange to say, however, it is easier to
approach a hare from the front than from any other direction. This fact
is, perhaps, due to the position of the eyes, which are situated somewhat
on the side of the head, and backward rather than forward. In that
delightful old book, Jesse’s _Gleanings in Natural History_—published
nearly a hundred years ago—the author makes the following statement: “I
have observed in coursing that, if a hare, when she is startled from her
form, has her ears down, she is a weak runner; but, if one of her ears is
carried erect, the hare generally beats the dogs.” I have never proved
the truth of this assertion.

Unlike rabbits, hares are born with their eyes open, and are covered with
hair. They seem to breed during the greater part of the year. As a rule,
they produce two at a birth, though three are by no means uncommon. One
naturalist mentions a case in which a hare gave birth to no fewer than
seven young ones.

Years ago a labourer, whom I occasionally employed as a hedger, brought a
live leveret to me, stating that it was one of three which had been born
outside his garden, and informed me that whenever three were produced at
a birth they invariably had a white star mark on their foreheads. I was
somewhat sceptical as to the truth of this, but I have since ascertained
that some naturalists assert this to be a fact. I kept the leveret until
it had developed into a full grown hare, when I gave it away. It had
grown very tame, and would sit out under the large wire run in front of
its coop and play with the spaniels. These latter used to lie about in
the sun close to the wire “creep,” the hare drumming at them with its
fore feet. I have often seen a happy family composed of several spaniels
round the cage, two cats sitting on the top, several white fantail
pigeons, and, not infrequently, some pied wagtails fearlessly running
about on the grass within a few yards.

We are accustomed to regard a hare as one of the most timid of all
animals, and in a state of nature this is the case. When, however, they
are kept in confinement, and have been tamed, they not only lose their
shyness to a very great extent, but are at times capable of exhibiting
an amount of ferocity hardly credible; and instances have been recorded
of their having completely beaten off a dog. A relation of mine was well
acquainted with a lady in one of our northern towns who kept two hares,
which she had succeeded in taming, and which were very much attached
to her. On her return home, after a prolonged absence of some three or
four months, and visiting her pets, they had, apparently, not only lost
their affection for her, but attacked her in so savage and determined
a manner that she was forced to beat a retreat. I have every reason to
believe in the absolute truth of this statement. Unlike rabbits hares
prefer solitude. It is an almost unknown thing to put up two hares which
have “seated” together. Even the young ones, as soon as they are weaned,
appear to separate themselves, and will lie couched some fifty or sixty
yards away from the doe. In hilly countries hares prefer to lie as near
to the top of a hill as the weather permits of their doing. The reason
for this is probably because the length of their hind legs enables them
to tread uphill better than down. When, however, they are forced to take
downhill, feeling their inability to descend in a straight line, they
invariably travel in an oblique direction. If pressed hard down a very
steep incline, they are apt, at times, to turn head over heels.

[Illustration]

It is unusual to find hares “seated” under a hedgerow, except in stormy
weather, when no other protection is available. As a rule, they prefer
to make their “forms” in the centre of a field, probably for greater
security. In mild, drizzly weather they generally move up to the higher
grounds, or seek the shelter of a gorse bush.

As everyone is aware, a hare is capable of giving a pack of hounds
infinitely more trouble to kill than a fox. It is the exception for a
hare to run straight away from hounds for any great distance, though
occasionally it will take a line as straight as that of a fox. The
account of a run with some harriers in one of our Eastern Counties, in
which, after affording a rattling gallop, the hare took out to sea in
the Wash, was recorded in the _Field_. The pack referred to was kept by
a relation of mine. For those who are able to appreciate the hunting
and working of hounds, hare-hunting affords greater opportunities for
witnessing the intricate difficulties of hunting by scent than any
similar description of sport. The man who is able to hunt harriers well
and successfully should be able to account for a fox, although the
tactics of the two animals pursued are different; for, whereas a forward
cast will generally succeed in hitting off the line of a fox when hounds
are at fault, nine times out of ten it is on one of the backward casts
that the true line of a hare will be found. It may well be said that the
direction a lost hare has taken will most surely be the one which appears
to be the least likely. It is the constant “doubling” which renders
hare-hunting so difficult. The best pack of harriers I ever saw at work
was one belonging to a Mr. Jeffreys. In colour they were black and tan,
owing to a strong infusion of the blood-hound cross. These hounds,
which were notorious, were exceedingly well handled by their owner, who
contrived to account for an incredible number of hares in the course of
the season. They were somewhat light-limbed, very speedy, and possessed
the most wondrous noses. No matter what the weather or the country might
be, they could pick up a scent where other hounds could not own a yard,
and even in the driest road or fallow in March.

Hare-shooting is but poor sport, and to my view, even under the best
circumstances, vastly inferior to good rabbit shooting. To miss a hare
within easy distance in the open is inexcusable, and to shoot at one at a
doubtful range still more so.

I am very much inclined to the opinion that, unless coursed or hunted,
a hare is by no means deserving of the high repute in which it is held
for table purposes, and there is, moreover, comparatively little of
its flesh worth eating. The following method of preparing a hare for
table may possibly be found useful. After skinning the animal, immerse
it in vinegar and water with a few juniper berries for twelve or even
twenty-four hours previous to roasting. By this means it will be found
little, if at all, inferior to a coursed or hunted hare.

I refer my readers to the _Satires_ of Horace (II. 4):

    “Si vespertinus subito te oppresserit hospes,
    Ne gallina malum responset dura palato,
    Doctus eris vivam mixto mersare Falerno;
    Hoc teneram faciet.”

Hare skins are useful for a variety of purposes. The country people make
them into waistcoats—chest preservers; the fur from the face and ears
forms an admirable body, either natural or dyed, for certain trout flies
such as the “Rough Olive Dun,” “Blue Dun,” “Sedge Flies,” etc.

The hind feet are most useful for oiling guns and such like articles.
They were—in former days—much used by those ladies who preferred to
supply the complexion which they lacked by a use of the rouge pot; and
the bones of the hind legs, when scraped and polished, are capable of
being converted into very handsome cigarette holders. So, all things
considered, a hare may be said to be a most useful animal.

Besides hunting, coursing, or shooting, various illegitimate methods are
employed in capturing hares, most commonly that known as “wiring,” to
my mind detestable in every sense of the word. A person well skilled in
setting a hare wire can make pretty certain of success. It is, however,
a practice usually confined to the poaching fraternity, who are far
more skilful in the use of a wire than keepers. An experienced eye can
very readily detect the difference between a poacher’s and a keeper’s
wire, whether it is set for hares or rabbits. An old hand can utilise
a bramble with nearly as certain success as a wire, and with far less
fear of detection, always provided that there happens to be a bramble
growing near enough to the run of a hare for the purpose. It is somewhat
difficult to explain, without the aid of an illustration, the difference
between a wire set by a keeper and that set by a poacher; but, if the
two are compared, the difference is very perceptible. Keepers twist
their wires far too much as a general rule, and, although they present a
very much neater appearance, they are not nearly so destructive; their
wires, too, are generally hand-twisted. A skilful poacher never twists
his wire by hand, and is careful not to touch the wire more than he can
help during its manufacture, using for the purpose of twisting the
strands a weight which is attached to each separate one, and by moving
which the necessary degree of twist is imparted, ever taking care to make
the twist as slight as possible. A poacher is well aware of the value
of an old wire, always provided it is sound and good, preferring it to
a new one. The general effect of such a wire when set appears clumsy to
an inexperienced eye, but a closer inspection will show the care and
skill with which it has been laid. Keepers, as a rule, set wires to
catch rabbits or hares for their employers, whereas poachers do so for
themselves. On one occasion, when shooting with a friend, we took up
some thirty or forty rabbit wires which had been set by a poacher; and
the next day my friend found a basket containing upwards of forty more,
all of which he gave to an old man in his employ. Curiously enough, we
afterwards discovered that these wires had been set by the grandson of
the man to whom they were given, who, of course, was not a little pleased
to have his property restored to him.

Another method of taking hares, adopted by poachers and the lower class
of gipsies, is to place a net across a gateway through which hares are
known to pass, and then to send a trained lurcher into the adjoining
fields to beat up the hare. Calling hares by means of a hare-call, and
then suddenly shooting them or suddenly slipping a lurcher on to them,
is a plan occasionally pursued. An ordinary tobacco pipe, provided it
has a mouthpiece, makes an excellent call-pipe. The call is produced by
pressing the mouthpiece against the lips, which must be nearly closed,
sucking in the air, placing the ball of the thumb on the bowl of the
pipe, and again quickly removing it. It is easy to produce the required
sound with a very little practice.

The following may interest the reader. On the afternoon of Easter Day
1895, I was walking in the water-meadows in front of my house in company
with my wife and a friend who had two well-broken retrievers with him.
My wife left us, returning to the house by a bridge which used to span
the river intervening between my house and the meadows, and which is at
that point some forty or fifty yards in width, the current being at the
time strong and deep. For some days previously I had noticed a hare in
the meadow, and on this occasion she jumped up some two hundred yards
from where we were standing in the centre of the field, raced round the
meadow, and eventually made straight for the river. The dogs had remained
perfectly steady at heel, though fully aware of what was happening.
Without the slightest hesitation she plunged boldly out into the stream,
swam rapidly across, and scampered up the bank, where, seeing my wife,
who had been watching the performance, she turned aside and bolted away
through the garden. It was strange that she should have elected to swim
so broad a river in preference to making her escape by either of the two
sides of the field which lay open to her, more especially since she had
not been chased or unduly disturbed in any way. The meadow is a very
large one, bounded on one side by the river in question, and on another
by a small tributary stream. The animal did not appear particularly
frightened either before or after her voyage. Perhaps she was suffering
from the insanity to which March hares are proverbially supposed to be
addicted. It was, certainly, a somewhat eccentric and unaccountable
performance.

In the summer of 1915—when fishing—a hare started up from the opposite
side of the river, and swam across not very many yards from where I was,
and, in that instance also, it had not been scared or startled in any
way, and there was nothing else in the field she started from but an old
piebald pony placidly feeding at some distance away. What made it a still
more curious performance was that I had a small terrier with me which was
nosing about the bank on my side of the river, and the hare passed only a
few yards above him.

[Illustration]




CHAPTER II.

KENNEL MANAGEMENT.

_By H. H. Howard-Vyse._


Kennel management falls under three headings, the arrangement of the
kennels themselves, feeding, and exercise. It may be said at once that
the management of beagles should be on precisely the same lines as
that of any other hounds; and the best way of learning to build up and
maintain a good pack of beagles is without doubt to study closely the
methods which obtain in any of the first class foxhound kennels. The only
differences to bear in mind, apart from the obvious one of size, are that
beagles are more delicate and are more apt to be nervous. The latter
point needs especially to be remembered in dealing with brood bitches and
young entry.

The kennels themselves should be like foxhound kennels in miniature, well
ventilated and adequately drained, but warm. The benches should be raised
about one foot off the ground, and there should be a raised edge, eight
inches higher, to prevent the bedding from slipping off on to the floor.
The benches should be hinged and fitted with a short chain which can be
hooked on to a staple in the wall. The object of this is to enable the
bench to be raised while the kennelman swills or sweeps out underneath
it. It need hardly be said that cleanliness is all-important. In order
to ensure fresh water the kennel should be fitted with a tap running
into a trough about ten inches from the ground. On hunting days an extra
liberal amount of clean straw should be provided, to enable hounds to dry
themselves quickly. As for foxhounds, an open air yard must be attached
to the kennel.

Separate small enclosed kennels are of course necessary for brood bitches
and sick hounds. For the former, quiet is important. For sick hounds,
which require to be kept particularly warm, these should be provided
with wooden floors; and, if it can conveniently be done, a hot water
pipe, brought possibly from the boiler house, will add greatly to the
comfort. In sick kennels a liberal use of sawdust and of disinfectants is
essential.

[Illustration: FEEDING TIME.

GEORGE CHAMPION.

DABBLER.

GIPSY AND RASPER.]

During the summer hounds must be kept exercised, and it is a good thing
to let them stand about in grass fields, when it will be found that they
will eat a quantity of grass and of earth, both of which are admirable
for their digestion. As the hunting season approaches, exercise must be
increased up to twenty miles a day. Ponies or bicycles are useful for
this, but the pace should not exceed seven miles an hour, except for
sharp bursts of a few hundred yards to open the hounds’ pipes. It is more
important that they should spend a long time out of kennel than that they
should cover great distances.

A hunt servant should ride behind to keep hounds up and on one side of
the road; they should be taught to come over quickly on to whichever side
of the road the huntsman wants them. In these days of motors this is
absolutely essential.

For feeding, the best oatmeal must be used, boiled the day before it is
required to such an extent that when cold it almost forms the consistency
of jelly. In cool weather it will keep for four or five days. Meat should
be given in the form of broth with the meat left in it and chopped small,
more being required in the hunting season than in summer. Raw meat every
now and again is a good thing, especially for those hounds which have
a tendency to eczema. To keep the blood cool the broth should contain,
especially in summer, vegetables, or the young tops of nettles; mangolds
too are beneficial, if well boiled. Hounds should be fed once a day only,
and must be walked out for at least half an hour immediately afterwards.

Brood bitches require to be fed twice a day, and their rations should
include milk and raw meat. They must not be allowed to get too fat, and
must be given plenty of exercise. A dose of salts just before whelping is
a good thing.

Whelps should be left on the dam as long as possible, but, to help her,
they should be persuaded to begin to lap at about a month old; at about
the same age they should be given a mild dose for worms—ruby syrup is
recommended. Their food should be gradually thickened up with soaked
bread crust or biscuit. At first they should be fed twice a day, then
thrice, and finally, when they are weaned at about ten weeks, four times
a day. Raw meat, very finely chopped, should be given as soon as they
will eat it, about as much as will fill a tea spoon, once a day at first,
and later double the quantity. At about three months old the feeds can be
gradually reduced till, soon after four months, the young hounds can be
fed like the rest of the pack.

For the benefit of their coats and skins all hounds should be dressed
twice during the summer with oil and sulphur, which should be left on
for at least forty-eight hours. If it is considered advisable to wash
hounds for vermin, a weak solution of MacDougall’s sheep dip should be
used. For the treatment of vermin Keating’s powder, and for cuts carbolic
oil must always be on hand. For eczema, a dose of salts, a dressing of
oil and sulphur, and a diet of raw meat are advised. For distemper, the
most important things are to keep the hound warm and to treat him as an
invalid for three weeks after he is apparently well. Every effort must be
made to make him feed, the best diet being soup, milk and fish.

But the essence of kennel management is that the kennelman should
be observant, so that he at once detects any symptoms of illness or
lameness.




CHAPTER III.

BEAGLING.

_By G. H. Longman._


Though perhaps it may be too much to say that hunting the hare on foot
with a pack of 15-in. beagles is the most interesting method of pursuing
the animal, still, if the evenness of the chances is to be the criterion
of interest, certainly the contest between a good pack of beagles and
a strong hare—the odds being slightly in favour of the latter—presents
sport in its truest elements.

A good pack of these little hounds will no doubt on a good scenting
day account for any hare, barring accidents; but these accidents are
extremely numerous, the first and foremost being the rising up in the
middle of the pack of a fresh hare just as the hunted animal is evidently
sinking. This mishap occurs more frequently than any other, and is
generally irremediable. Imagine a large ploughed field of stiff clay, the
hunted hare down, and hounds just feathering on the line, scent having
become a little weak. The huntsman is nearest (and all praise to him, as
hounds have run hard for forty minutes!); he has pulled up to a walk,
for the clay land clings to each boot with a tenacity which renders even
walking a wearisome struggle. He knows well that the moment is critical,
as there are probably fresh hares lying in the field; that scent may so
far fail as to compel him to make a cast; and that this will certainly
increase the already imminent danger of a change. He is just stopping,
in order to keep well away from his hounds, when he almost treads on a
fresh hare which gets up under his feet. She heads straight for the pack,
but our huntsman stands still as death; puss, seeing hounds, swerves
away without their catching a view, and the danger of a change is for
the moment past. But our huntsman’s eyes are at work, and he presently
observes a dark form stealing away about a hundred yards in front of the
pack. He looks again, makes sure that it is _his_ hare, and then, blowing
his horn, has his hounds to him in a trice, while he gamely struggles
through the clay at the best pace he can muster towards the spot where
the hunted hare has disappeared over a brow, her arched back betraying
her distressed condition, so that if only hounds can get a view they must
kill her.

The game is well-nigh won; but unfortunately the hounds’ heads are up,
and, a fresh hare rising in their very midst, away goes the whole pack,
running the stranger in view. Really well under control as they are, no
amount of rating or horn-blowing will stop them unless someone can get
round them. Get round them! Alas, anyone who has run with beagles knows
the impossibility of this until hounds check! It is, moreover, quite
likely that they will run without checking for at least twenty minutes,
and then what prospect will there be of recovering the line of the hunted
hare? Some slight chance indeed there is, for a tired hare always stops,
so that, if any vestige of a line can be shown, hounds may work up to and
re-find her. Far oftener, however, all trace has vanished, when they are
brought back to the spot where she was last seen.

But let us describe a day’s sport with beagles, starting with the
supposition that the master is sufficiently energetic to be up and at it
by six o’clock on a beautiful October morning; for not only are hares
scarce in the district over which he proposes to hunt, the consequence
being that he will have a better chance of a find by getting on the
trail, but he also desires to give his young entry the lesson for which
running a hare’s trail up to her form is so admirably adapted.

There has been rain, but it passed away on the previous afternoon,
and after a brilliant night the ground is covered with a heavy dew.
Our huntsman is wise to begin operations thus early, for now scent
is probably good; whereas when the sun has reached any height the
atmospheric conditions will, as a rule, become less favourable.

Let us linger for a moment by the gate, where hounds are clustered
round their huntsman, some jumping up at him, and others making an
unprofessional use of their tuneful voices, a transgression which,
however, elicits but a faint-hearted rate, for our huntsman loves his
hounds intensely, and feels almost inclined to encourage a breach of
etiquette which only enhances his already keen sense of enjoyment.

It is a charming scene. A country roadside which forms the boundary
between some rough grass meadows leading down to a stream on the one
side, and a heather common on the other, gently undulating towards a
piece of water, to which the wild duck are just coming in from the stream
where they have spent the night. Even now a few duck are to be seen
overhead, the whistle of their wings first making us aware of their
presence. They are circling high above us, not daring to pitch, and will
probably take a fresh flight to another and larger sheet of water about
three miles further on.

We must, however, return to the pack. The Master is moving off, and as he
waves the pack over a bank into the heather any hound throwing his tongue
will be severely dealt with if the whipper-in can only get near enough to
administer one cut, accompanied by “Ware riot, Melody!” for business has
begun.

Ten couple of hounds there are in all, and two couple of them are
unentered. Melody is one of these, and while there must be no question of
sparing the rod, we have a fellow-feeling for her exuberance of spirits.
The delinquent already has her stern up once more (it was momentarily
lowered on receipt of the whipper-in’s practical rebuke), and is as busy
as any of them, flinging here and there, and pushing her way into a
cluster of hounds which look remarkably busy, for, yes! they have already
struck a line, no doubt of a hare returning from feeding in the grass
meadows adjoining the common.

The huntsman maintains a masterly inactivity, merely rating any hound
which shows an inclination to dwell on the line. Now they are running
quite merrily across the heather, but come to a stop where the hare
has taken to one of the paths which abound hereabouts. She has run the
path for quite eighty yards, and only the older hounds can carry the
line along it, the body of the pack casting about, and showing a slight
inclination to run heel. The huntsman, however, holds them forward,
walking quietly along the path, well in rear of those hounds who are
carrying the line.

These tactics result in a pretty hit, for, although the hare has run the
road for eighty yards, she has run her foil for at least twenty-five
before flinging off, so that the body hit the line out of the path
while the old hounds are still picking out the scent further along; but
these at once go to cry, and the whole pack flings briskly forward. The
huntsman allows them very ample room, knowing that puss has very likely
made her form not far away. See! they have overrun the scent, and, as
they spread back fan-like to recover the line, up jumps the hare and off
they go, running in view for a short distance, and then taking up the
line with a chorus which at once proclaims a scent.

The whipper-in is lying wide, and succeeds in turning the hare out of a
broad sandy path which would otherwise undoubtedly have caused a check;
and away they go over the open heather at a pace which tries our wind
terribly. The pack head straight for a sort of island farm which lies on
a hill side in the middle of the heather, cross it, and, emerging once
more at the top of the hill, run beautifully over the heathery flat until
they come to a main road, where they check long enough to enable the
huntsman to get up to them.

A pretty picture is displayed! A fine stretch of heather extending for
some miles, through which the old main road from London to Portsmouth
runs, with now and again considerable stretches of fir woods forming a
dark fringe to the view, whilst over the fir tops the sun, just emerging,
adds a sparkling brightness to the landscape, which would be alone
sufficient to repay the early start. The busy pack makes a beautiful
foreground, flinging here and there in search of the momentarily vanished
clue. Mark that veteran of the pack, well known for his wide and
independent casts; the huntsman’s eye is on him, and he moves quietly in
his direction, without, however, so much as whistling to his hounds.

He has judged wisely, for Challenger unmistakably has the line and speaks
to it confidently, just as the huntsman gets near enough to put in with
good effect, “Hark to Challenger!” and hounds, flying to cry, take up the
running with a chorus which it does one’s heart good to hear. They have,
however, only run about a hundred yards when they check quite suddenly,
once more spreading out like a fan. But they are only momentarily at
fault. Poor puss is down, her heart having failed her after coming
about two miles straight, and she is up and off in view as soon as the
hounds, who have slightly overrun the scent, spread back to where she
has clapped. She heads for home, and hounds run fast for another fifteen
minutes before checking on the island farm which they crossed in the
first burst.

The sun is getting strong by this time, and scent does not serve so well
on the arable land. Hounds slowly carry the line into the middle of a
newly ploughed hillside field, and gradually come to a stop. Evidently
the hare is forward, so, after leaving his hounds alone sufficiently long
to enable them to recover the line, unassisted if they can, the huntsman
resolves on a cast “forrard.” He whistles his hounds to him, and at a
gentle double casts them round the fence from about opposite to where
they checked, keeping his hounds in front of him, and giving them time
to try as they go. Almost immediately one of the puppies speaks, and out
pops a rabbit right under his nose. The huntsman rates “Ware rabbit!”
and, very much to their credit, none of the old hounds break away. It
is, however, altogether too much for the puppies, who every one of them
courses the rabbit for about a hundred yards in full cry.

Luckily the interloper runs up hill along the fence, so the delinquents
are easily stopped by the whipper-in, who is lying back, and turned to
the master’s horn. It may here be remarked that it is comparatively easy
to stop beagles from rabbits in the open. The pack the writer has in
mind would always stop if rated when a rabbit got up in an open field;
but in covert, where one could not easily get at them, the case was
very different, and you might holloa yourself hoarse without producing
much effect. Master Bunny, however, only caused a momentary diversion,
and hounds, having struck the line in the bottom corner of the fence,
are once more chiming away merrily over the heather in the direction of
puss’s original form.

Will they catch her? Well, if she is a leveret her bolt must be nearly
shot, but if she is an old hare—and she is big enough!—she will lead the
pack a merry dance for another good half-hour before giving in. So is the
fight fought between poor puss and her enemies the beagles. Sometimes
a circle; sometimes a straight bolt and then as a rule clapping till
hounds are over her, and getting up behind them, making her way home
again; sometimes, though not often, making a long point and dying some
five miles from home. I once recollect a hare being found close to the
brook near which hounds were thrown off, as above described, making a
point of five miles over the heather, and being eventually killed in the
grounds of a well-known public school situated in that district. This is,
however, an exceptional occurrence.

Many and varied are the incidents which occur during the chase of a hare.
Often have we been hopelessly at fault on that common, when, to our joy,
we have beheld a hat held aloft on some neighbouring hill. We know that
hat well. It belongs to the most arrant poacher in the neighbourhood; he
is the best hand at seeing a hare sitting in the whole countryside, and
he knows a hunted hare when he sees her. We tried at one time to reclaim
him by paying him more for every hare he found for us than he could
get for one dead in the public-house. No use! the instinct was far too
strong, and only a week or two after the beginning of the compact “the
Long ’un,” as he was called—for he was a tall fellow—was caught setting a
snare one Sunday morning.

When we were drawing for a hare he would walk with his hands behind him,
and, turning his head slowly from side to side, would cover all ground
within fifty yards as well as any setter. Probably before very long he
would suddenly stop, and, indicating a certain spot perhaps twenty yards
away, would quite quietly remark, “There she sets!” Surely enough there
she did sit; though as often as not his eye alone could discern Madam
Puss crouched in her heathery form. A wonderfully observant man he must
have been, and great fun we used to have about him; but as to reclaiming
him, you might as well have asked him not to eat—or drink, for it must
be regretfully admitted he was at least as fond of liquid as of solid
nourishment.

He was often in gaol—always for poaching—and, as the keeper used to say,
“The Long ’un always came out fatter than he went in!” so his home fare
was probably neither plentiful in quantity nor of an Epicurean quality.
He never bore malice, as the following incident shows. He had been in
gaol for poaching on the common above described. His sentence expired on
a Saturday, and as a party of us were walking on the following Sunday
afternoon along one of the footpaths which thread the common, who should
appear round a corner but our friend, just fresh from gaol?

What did he do? Why, he lifted his hat, and wished us good-day in the
cheeriest manner possible, just as if he had met us by appointment to
help find a hare for the beagles.

Probably he was there for no very legitimate purpose, but at the moment
he was, of course, on the footpath, where he had as much right to be as
anyone else; and one could hardly help sympathising with the love of
sporting adventure which was doubtless the main cause of his poaching
proclivities. At any rate, he found us many a hare, and was an important
factor in bringing not a few to hand.

No attempt has been made to describe in detail the different methods
of hunting beagles, or the different stamp of beagle which is suitable
for different countries, as all these points have been dealt with in
the Hunting volume of the “Badminton Library.” The writer has merely
attempted to place before the reader a picture (very imperfect,
doubtless) of such leading episodes in this sport as he has himself
witnessed many and many a time; and if the picture should by any lucky
chance induce any reader of these pages to be “up and at it” by six
o’clock in the morning, and test for himself the enjoyment of watching
a good pack of beagles at work, he will, if he has any hunting instinct
at all in him, assuredly be well repaid, and the writer will not have
written in vain.




CHAPTER IV.

THE HUMANITARIAN ASPECT.

_By Col. Robertson-Aikman._


I have been asked to contribute some remarks on the humanitarian aspect
of hare hunting, much having been written to the Press on its cruelty,
especially in reference to the E.C.H.—a hunt that has been singled out
for opprobrium by people to whom must no doubt be attributed well-meaning
and humanitarian feelings, but who it seems to me fail to recognise
natural laws or to take a broad-minded or unbiased view of sport in
general or to realise that they have not the monopoly of humane feelings.

To commence with, what is cruelty? The infliction of pain need not
necessarily constitute cruelty, else many things besides sport must be
condemned. The infliction of unnecessary pain is where cruelty begins,
and this is reprehensible and inexcusable. I think the subject must be
approached with a sense of proportion, and must be treated comparatively.
All animals have to meet their death, and those that are used for human
food an untimely death at the hand of man, and the chief object to be
kept in view is the avoidance of inflicting unnecessary pain. This should
be every true sportsman’s aim.

Nature herself is cruel, beasts and birds of prey being the worst
offenders. Who that has seen a cat with a mouse but is not moved with
pity and made to wonder why things have been so ordained?

Venery has been in vogue since the days of primitive man, when he hunted
for the means of subsistence; and nowadays, when it is practised as a
manly pastime for exercise, health, and pleasure, every true sportsman
who indulges in it makes it his endeavour to minimise the sufferings of
his quarry, and will always give it a fair chance for its life. Contrast
this with the everyday occurrence of a calf or a pig being taken to have
its throat cut and bled to death with no possible chance of escape. My
sympathy is stronger for these than for any hunted animal. Have those who
decry the sport never eaten veal and ham pie?

I said before that the question is comparative, and I should like
to follow that up by saying that the sport of hunting compares very
favourably with other sports from a humanitarian view. Take shooting;
how many animals and birds in a day’s shooting get away wounded, many to
die a lingering death? Quite a considerable percentage. In hunting it is
certain death or escape, and, though cases are known of hunted animals
being picked up afterwards having died of exhaustion, these cases are
exceptional. They never get away wounded, and their end when killed by
hounds is as quick as it is certain. I imagine there are more things
mortally wounded in a big day’s covert shoot than any one pack of hounds
kills in a season, and I venture to think that taking the country as a
whole there are more wounded in one day’s shooting than all the packs in
the kingdom kill in a whole season.

I recall an incident when hunting in Lanarkshire which illustrates the
often mistaken ideas of humanitarians. I had a beaten hare in front of me
that took to the roads. I came to a cross road where hounds checked, and
met a lady whom I asked if she had viewed my hare. She said yes, but she
would rather not tell me where she had gone, as she looked on hunting as
cruel. I told her I respected her feelings of humanity, and if I were of
her opinion I would give up hunting. I asked her her views on shooting
and whether she did not think it was cruel that so many things died from
wounds. She replied, “No good sportsmen ever wound things, they always
kill them dead.” How many of us, I wonder, could under this definition
claim to be good sportsmen?

An officer of that excellent Society the S.P.C.A. once met me returning
home with hounds from hunting, and, noticing a lame hound, was going to
run me in for cruelty. I told him if he could insure prevention of such
cruelty I hoped he would come and stay with me for the winter.

Some people would have us believe that a hunted animal suffers agonies
of mind (vide _Modern Society_, 18th February, 1899), and Somervile’s
_Chace_ conveys that impression. This no one who has had much experience
of hunting believes. Many of these animals spend their lives in a state
of being hunted by others, dogs, cats, vermin, etc., and they are chiefly
occupied in avoiding their natural enemies. Fright they may feel, as
a hare will if put up by a person walking across a field, but their
attempts at escape are their only thought, and they do not realise the
penalty of being caught. I don’t think they are at all distressed until
they are dead beat, when the end generally comes quickly and surely.

Objection has been taken to certain terms used in hunting, such as
“pulled her down,” “ran into her,” “rolled her over,” “dead beat,”
“breaking her up,” “blooding the hounds.” The first three, critics may
not know, simply imply catching the hare. “Dead beat”—this feeling is
also experienced by any Eton boy in the School Steeplechase when he
reaches the School Jump. The last two taking place after the death of the
hare can scarcely be urged as cruel.

Do these humanitarians inveigh against poisoning rats, destroying wasps’
nests, burning these insects alive, using fly-papers, or mouse-traps?
Do they eat game, fish, meat, or have they ever tasted _foie gras_ or
lobster?

The Humanitarian Society claim to have accomplished the abolition of the
Royal Buckhounds by appealing to Queen Victoria’s tender feelings. I
think there were other and more cogent reasons.

The late Provost, the late Head Master, the late Vice-Provost, the late
Mr. R. S. de Havilland and others have been accused of brutality and
callousness. All who knew them and who understand the subject resent such
baseless attacks on men of kindly disposition and balanced judgment.

The _Spectator_ says, “These Eton brutalities are condemned by the modern
spirit of humaneness,” and quotes the rules of the Founder as follows,
“No scholar, fellow, chaplain, or other minister, or servant of the
College, shall keep or have hunting dogs, nets for hunting, ferrets,
falcons or hawks,” urging that the Founder’s intention was humanitarian.
There is no doubt, however, that this was simply the reservation of
sporting rights. A similar clause is common in leases to this day.

The arguments I have read or heard show a deplorable ignorance of the
subject.

I have been asked to give my views on the date on which hare hunting
should stop, and on the killing of heavy does, a subject made much of
by an ephemeral called the _Beagler Boy_. In 1906, in consequence of
correspondence between Mr. Fitzroy Stewart and the Head Master of Eton on
the subject of the School Beagles, and which mainly referred to the date
on which hare hunting should cease, the _County Gentleman_ asked for the
opinion of some of the leading masters of harriers and beagles on this
point, three questions being asked, viz.:

    1. Do you think it advisable to fix the date for the end of the
    hare-hunting season, and if so what date would you fix?

    2. Do you subscribe to the opinion that a heavy hare has no
    scent?

    3. Have you known in your experience heavy hares to be either
    run or chopped by hounds?

Among the replies sent was the following from Mr. George Race (of Road
Farm, Biggleswade), than whom no one was more qualified to give an
opinion, he having been M.H. for seventy years:

    “Dear Sir,—In answer to your questions I can only tell you I
    do not consider it advisable to fix any date for discontinuing
    hare hunting; and for this reason. In the south of England
    hares get heavy two or three weeks earlier than they do in the
    north, and also in an extensive country well stocked with hares
    you can of course go on longer than in a small country not well
    stocked.

    As to the second question I am quite sure that a heavy hare
    emits little or no scent.

    As to your last question, I certainly have known heavy hares
    chopped by hounds and also run by hounds.”

My own letter written from the High Peak country at that time was as
follows, viz.:

    “Dear Sir,—In reply to your letter and the special questions:

    1. I am not certain that a fixed date for closing the
    hare-hunting season is advisable. There is no doubt that in
    some countries such as this hunting can be carried on a week
    or two later than in many others. If a date were fixed I agree
    that the middle (16th) of March would be the best date, all
    things considered, though it would not be early enough to
    obviate the occasional killing of heavy does.

    2. No; but I am certain that a heavy hare has comparatively
    little scent.

    3. Yes, of course, but owing to her carrying less scent and
    to her short running, a doe hare is seldom killed when heavy.
    I have been particular to observe when hunting in March for
    years past whether a heavy hare is often killed, and have
    found it not to be the case. I doubt if my hounds kill on an
    average more than one each season. This year a brace have been
    killed—one in February.”

On the first point Beckford says, “It is a question which I know not how
to answer, as it depends as well on the quantity of game that you have as
on the country you hunt.”

In conclusion, I think that without doubt, when looking back on the Great
War, the country owes a deep debt of gratitude to all sports which tend
to make a man manly (I am afraid I do not include such sports as coursing
or pigeon shooting among them, as I am of opinion that woodcraft is a
_sine qua non_ to a manly sport). Of all sports hunting most engenders
initiative, close observation, quick decision, and courage, qualities
essential to all leaders in the several branches of the Forces of the
Crown, and which were conspicuous during the late War in the cases of men
who had been entered to hunting. The horses too were a great national
asset in that crisis. There could be no better initial training for the
hunting field than running with beagles. I can look back on five years as
M.F.H. and twenty-two seasons with harriers, but my initiation was with
the Eton beagles, and I did not follow them without learning many useful
lessons in the noble art. I hope many future generations of Etonians will
profit by them. I still have a hare’s pad set up killed by them on 18th
February, 1879. I have a warm feeling for the hare, and never quite like
shooting one: she has afforded me much sport, much pleasure, and much
benefit, and if I could forget the fox—and, of course, the hound and the
horse—I could agree with Martial that

    “Inter quadrupedes gloria prima lepus.”




APPENDIX I.

LIST OF MASTERS AND WHIPS.


_College Pack._

    1857

    R. H. Carter               (Master)
    J. A. Willis

    1858

    R. H. Carter               (Master)
    H. St. A. Goodrich
    T. J. Huddleston

    1859

    R. H. Carter               (Master)
    H. St. A. Goodrich
    H. M. Palmer

    1860

    T. J. Huddleston
    T. J. P. Carter
    E. E. Witt

    1861

    E. E. Witt                 (Master)
    A. C. Custance
    H. W. More-Molyneux

    1862

    E. E. Witt                 (Master)
    H. W. More-Molyneux
    C. R. Moore

    1863

    G. G. J. Thackeray         (Master)
    C. R. Moore
    J. B. Wood

    1864

    R. H. J. L. B. Lewis       (Master)
    J. B. Wood
    A. A. Wace
    R. V. Somers-Smith

    1865

    A. J. Pound                (Master)
    R. V. Somers-Smith
    A. G. Tindal

    1866

    A. J. Pound                (Master)
    F. E. Armitstead
    G. Gosset


_Oppidan Pack._

    1858

    N. E. Charrington          (Master)
    G. C. K. Johnstone

    1859

    N. E. Charrington          (Master)
    G. C. K. Johnstone
    C. Tayleur

    1860

    R. E. Moore                (Master)
    H. O. L. Baker

    1861

    J. G. Chambers             (Master)
    J. H. A. Schneider
    H. P. Senhouse

    1862

    W. T. Trench               (Master)
    Hon. F. G. Pelham
    H. M. Meysey-Thompson

    1863

    Hon. F. G. Pelham          (Master)
    H. M. Meysey-Thompson
    W. R. Griffiths

    1864

    H. M. Meysey-Thompson      (Master)
    A. Turnor
    S. H. Sandbach

    1865

    C. S. Newton               (Master)
    R. F. Meysey-Thompson
    E. Royds

    1866

    E. Royds                   (Master)
    W. M. Milner
    G. R. Sandbach


_Amalgamated Hunt._

    1867

    W. C. Calvert              (Master)
    F. E. Armitstead, K.S.
    Hon. H. P. C. S. Monck

    1868

    W. C. Calvert              (Master)
    F. E. Armitstead, K.S.
    F. Johnstone

    1869

    F. Johnstone               (Master)
    W. M. Browne, K.S.
    E. P. Rawnsley

    1870

    G. H. Longman              (Master)
    F. A. Currey
    G. L. Wickham

    1871

    G. H. Longman              (Master)
    G. H. Armitstead, K.S.
    Hon. H. C. Legge

    1872

    F. Fenwick                 (Master)
    Hon. R. Parker
    A. H. Charlesworth

    1873

    Hon. C. Harbord            (Master)
    W. A. Harford
    V. W. Vickers

    1874

    W. A. Harford              (Master)
    Hon. E. W. Parker
    L. H. Jones

    1875

    Hon. E. W. Parker          (Master)
    A. C. B. Mynors
    J. B. T. Chevallier, K.S.
    A. M. Wilson

    1876

    R. Hunt                    (Master)
    J. B. T. Chevallier, K.S.
    G. H. Portal
    C. P. Selby-Bigge

    1877

    R. Hunt                    (Master)
    G. H. Portal
    E. K. Douglas
    C. A. Fellowes

    1878

    E. K. Douglas              (Master)
    R. D. Anderson
    A. Gosling
    C. B. Harvey

    1879

    A. W. H. Beach             (Master)
    Hon. M. B. Hawke
    Lord Eskdail
    G. Streatfeild

    1880

    Hon. D. H. Lascelles       (Master)
    N. MacGregor
    Hon. G. E. Milles
    G. L. Holdsworth

    1881

    Hon. D. H. Lascelles       (Master)
    G. L. Holdsworth
    Hon. A. E. Parker
    J. Hargreaves

    1882

    Hon. A. E. Parker          (Master)
    J. Hargreaves
    T. C. Toler
    F. S. Maude

    1883

    Hon. A. E. Parker          (Master)
    J. Hargreaves
    Lord Newtown-Butler
    F. Douglas-Pennant

    1884

    Lord Newtown-Butler        (Master)
    F. Douglas-Pennant
    B. G. H. Vernon
    F. A. Soames

    1885

    T. H. Barnard              (Master)
    F. P. Barnett
    Hon. G. H.-D.-Willoughby
    C. M. F. Luttrell

    1886

    F. P. Barnett              (Master)
    Hon. G. H.-D.-Willoughby
    C. M. F. Luttrell
    Hon. C. Douglas-Pennant

    1887

    Hon. T. W. Brand           (Master)
    Lord C. Cavendish-Bentinck
    E. G. Hills
    W. H. L. Allgood

    1888

    W. S. Gosling              (Master)
    F. E. Goad
    Hon. J. H. Ward
    G. Fenwick

    1889

    Hon. J. H. Ward            (Master)
    M. B. Furse, K.S.
    L. Caldecott
    C. G. Dalgety

    1890

    Hon. R. A. Ward            (Master)
    V. Nickalls
    E. Lee
    A. H. Dickinson

    1891

    E. G. Campbell             (Master)
    E. Lee
    Lord Brackley
    F. W. Wignall

    1892

    A. M. Grenfell             (Master)
    F. Hargreaves
    Hon. R. Ward
    J. A. Morrison

    1893

    W. R. O. Kynaston          (Master)
    Hon. F. W. G. Egerton
    R. S. Grenfell
    J. V. Hermon

    1894

    H. Baker-Creswell          (Master)
    T. D. Pilkington
    F. M. A. Atkinson-Clark
    E. R. Davson

    1895.

    G. C. Sanford Hodgson      (Master)
    A. W. F. Baird
    D. O. Dunlop
    Hon. G. E. F. Ward

    1896

    Hon. G. E. F. Ward         (Master)
    C. M. Black
    Hon. C. W. H. Cavendish
    G. Robarts

    1897

    G. Robarts                 (Master)
    A. D. Legard
    J. J. Pawson
    R. Lubbock, K.S.

    1898

    H. R. Milvain              (Master)
    W. H. Chapman
    A. D. Pilkington
    W. T. Hodgson

    1899

    F. O. Grenfell             (Master)
    R. N. Grenfell
    E. B. Denison
    H. K. Longman

    1900

    H. K. Longman              (Master)
    L. Heathcoat-Amory
    Lord Dalmeny
    G. Hargreaves

    1901

    R. G. H. Howard-Vyse       (Master)
    C. E. Lambert
    J. S. Mellor
    N. M. Wilson

    1902

    R. G. H. Howard-Vyse       (Master)
    N. M. Wilson
    A. F. Lambert
    J. H. Drake

    1903

    A. F. Lambert              (Master)
    C. R. H. Wiggin
    K. I. Nicholl
    St. J. M. Lambert

    1903-1904

    C. Romer Williams          (Master)
    A. R. Gilbey
    N. W. Loder
    Lord Maidstone           } (3rd Whips)
    P. M. N. Wroughton       }

    1904-1905

    P. M. N. Wroughton         (Master)
    E. A. Lycett-Green
    M. C. Albright
    G. J. C. Browne

    1905-1906

    P. M. N. Wroughton         (Master)
    H. S. Loder
    J. F. Montagu
    G. Buxton

    1906-1907

    H. S. Loder                (Master)
    G. R. Wiggin
    S. G. Menzies
    G. Kekewich

    1907-1908.

    S. G. Menzies              (Master)
    G. Kekewich
    G. H. Gilbey
    I. A. Straker

    1908-1909.

    S. G. Menzies              (Master)
    F. W. M. Cornwallis
    G. W. Barclay
    R. F. Drake

    1909-1910.

    G. W. Barclay              (Master)
    R. F. Drake
    W. S. Cornwallis
    K. S. M. Gladstone

    1910-1911

    K. S. M. Gladstone         (Master)
    L. C. Gibbs
    W. P. Browne
    W. Holland-Hibbert       } (3rd Whips)
    J. C. R. Rawnsley        }

    1911-1912

    L. C. Gibbs                (Master)
    W. P. Browne
    G. K. Dunning
    N. W. H. Gladstone       } (3rd whips)
    E. G. K. S. May.         }

    1912-1913

    G. K. Dunning              (Master)
    N. W. H. Gladstone
    H. A. St. George
    R. E. F. Courage

    1913-1914

    C. C. H. Hilton Green    } (Masters)
    R. D. Crossman           }
    Lord Apsley
    L. C. Nash
    R. W. G. Dill

    1914-1915

    R. D. Crossman           } (Masters)
    G. G. Cox-Cox            }
    R. W. G. Dill            } (1st Whips)
    A. Knowles               }
    B. A. Wilson
    P. H. G. H. S. Hartley

    1915-1916

    G. G. Cox-Cox            } (Masters)
    W. A. D. Eley            }
    G. Clapham
    R. F. Goad
    T. M. Nussey

    1916-1917

    R. F. Goad               } (Masters)
    H. K. M. Kindersley      }
    T. M. Nussey             } (1st Whips)
    J. A. Dewhurst           }
    S. A. Parker
    Hon. E. V. Rhys

    1917. Winter Half.

    S. A. Parker               (Master)
    Hon. E. V. Rhys
    P. G. Ward Jackson
    Marquess of Worcester

    1918-1919. No hunting.

    1920. Easter Half.

    F. M. G. Glyn              (Master)
    J. P. Dewhurst
    C. H. S. Dixon
    T. C. Barnett-Barker

    1920-1921.

    T. C. Barnett-Barker       (Master)
    J. M. Hopkinson
    T. C. Gouldsmith
    A. C. Crossley




APPENDIX II.

RECORD OF SPORT.


_Amalgamated Hunt._

    1867

    Hunting days        27
    Hares killed         3

    1868

    Hunting days        29
    Hares killed         2

    1869

    Hunting days        26
    Hares killed         7

    1870

    Hunting days        18
    Hares killed         3

    1871

    Hunting days        24
    Hares killed         4

    1872

    Hunting days        29
    Hares killed         6

    1873

    Hunting days        22
    Hares killed         5

    1874

    Hunting days        22
    Hares killed         4

    1875

    Hunting days        22
    Hares killed         4

    1876

    Hunting days        34
    Hares killed        15

    1877

    Hunting days        27
    Hares killed        17

    1878

    Hunting days        26
    Hares killed        11

    1879

    Hunting days        25
    Hares killed        13

    1880

    Hunting days        25
    Hares killed         9

    1881

    Hunting days        25
    Hares killed        13

    1882

    Hunting days        27
    Hares killed        12

    1883

    Hunting days        26
    Hares killed         7

    1884

    Hunting days        28
    Hares killed        11

    1885

    Hunting days        24
    Hares killed         8

    1886

    Hunting days        37
    Hares killed        17

    1887

    Hunting days        30
    Hares killed        11

    1888

    Hunting days        25
    Hares killed         5

    1889

    Hunting days        30
    Hares killed        11

    1890

    Hunting days        26
    Hares killed        12

    1891

    Hunting days        27
    Hares killed         6

    1892

    Hunting days        26
    Hares killed        14

    1893

    Hunting days        31
    Hares killed         8

    1894

    Hunting days        22
    Hares killed        11

    1895

    Hunting days        21
    Hares killed         7

    1896

    Hunting days        29
    Hares killed         3

    1897

    Hunting days        30
    Hares killed        15

    1898

    Hunting days        30
    Hares killed         7

    1899

    Hunting days        31
    Hares killed        13

    1900

    Hunting days        24
    Hares killed         5

    1900-1901

    Hunting days        28
    Hares killed         5

    1901-1902

    Hunting days        37
    Hares killed        11

    1903

    Hunting days        30
    Hares killed         9

    1903-1904

    Hunting days        42
    Hares killed        25

    1904-1905

    Hunting days        40
    Hares killed        20

    1905-1906

    Hunting days        48
    Hares killed        22

    1906-1907

    Hunting days        37
    Hares killed        10

    1907-1908

    Hunting days        42
    Hares killed        24

    1908-1909

    Hunting days        43
    Hares killed        25

    1909-1910

    Hunting days        36
    Hares killed        19

    1910-1911

    Hunting days        36
    Hares killed        27

    1911-1912

    Hunting days        43
    Hares killed        28

    1912-1913

    Hunting days        45
    Hares killed        33

    1913-1914

    Hunting days        49
    Hares killed    [12]38

    1914-1915

    Hunting days        31
    Hares killed        22

    1915-1916

    Hunting days        34
    Hares killed         9

    1916-1917

    Hunting days        31
    Hares killed        12

    1917. Winter Half.

    Hunting days        16
    Hares killed         9

    1918-1919. No hunting.

    1920

    Hunting days        19
    Hares killed         3

    1920-1921

    Hunting days        49
    Hares killed        36




APPENDIX III.

LETTER FROM F. GRENFELL TO _Eton College Chronicle_, DEC. 1899.


The existing arrangements for the keeping of the Eton beagles having
proved extravagant and not altogether satisfactory, I now propose to
try and form a plan which will in the future put the Hunt on a sound
basis. The first step is to build our own kennels, and it is with much
satisfaction I am able to state that the Governing Body see no objection
to the plan, and have appointed the Building Committee to consider it.
Should kennels be built, the E.C.H. will benefit in four ways:

    (i) The kennels would belong exclusively to the College.

    (ii) The kennel huntsman would be a College Servant.

    (iii) A valuable pack might be got together.

    (iv) All at a less expense than it has cost in the past.

In regard to No. (iii) there is much to be said, discussed, agreed to and
disagreed from.

We will suppose that the E.C.H. be a beagle pack—as in years past it has
been a beagle-harrier pack of all sizes. If it be a beagle pack, it must
have no hounds over 16 inches, as 16 inches is the limit of a beagle. The
pack should not be smaller than 15½ inches to 16 inches, as there are
several reasons to object to in having smaller hounds.

    1. The enormous field which turns out, numbering often 200
    people, and a small, and therefore slow, pack is almost
    impossible, as some of the 200 would be overrunning the hounds
    all the time.

    2. We only hunt for two or three hours in the afternoon.

    3. The country that is hunted consists almost entirely of
    plough, which, of course, stops hounds to a great extent.

Perhaps the plan that W. B. H. proposes in _E.C.C._ of Nov. 17th could be
brought into consideration: (1) “That the Master of the Beagles should
summon a meeting of present and old Etonians interested in the subject
(I think old Masters might be added to the list) to decide, now and
for ever, upon a standard height of the Eton Beagles.” (2) “That the
standard should be fixed with a view to showing as much sport to their
followers as possible in the limited number of hours at their disposal.”
(3) “That the matter should be thoroughly thrashed out, and that it
should not be in the power of succeeding Masters to change either the
standard of height or type fixed for their benefit by their predecessors
on due consideration.”

Having disposed of all last year’s pack I have bought an entirely new
pack of hounds, 15½ inches and very level. Though some hounds are rather
lacking in good looks, the pack in itself are a level lot, and very good
workers. As we hope to have the new kennels, a very great improvement
will be made, namely “walk” will be done away with. It is impossible to
have a good pack, i.e. a pack that works well together, and several new
hounds, drafts from other packs, bought, and for the remaining ten months
are at walk, which in several cases means that a boy at the College takes
them home, and gets his moneyworth out of them by hunting drags, rabbits
and sometimes hares; and in other cases they are taken home, forgotten,
neglected, and sent back in January, so as to hunt at once, in a most
disgraceful condition. Can this pack, then, be expected to hunt when they
are all collected as well as a pack kept and hunted from year to year,
doing daily exercise in the summer, and good fifteen miles’ road exercise
three days a week in October, November and December, with, if possible,
an occasional hunt in between?

And therefore a pack, 16 inches, having been hunted year by year
together, and got fit and properly kept, will go far faster than a pack
straying for 50 yards or so, with a hound 20 yards or so ahead of the
rest, etc., of 18, 17, 16, 15 and 14 inch hounds. These heights are no
exaggeration, one year there being two hounds 19½ and two 12 inches. And
if “walk” continues, these heights must be varied like this, as it is
impossible to get a level pack in January.

Now we will suppose that the hounds are kept in their kennels always
throughout the summer; then the new Master can be with his hounds all
the summer and good blood can be got in the pack by sending bitches to
well-known beagle packs, and in time a very good strain could be got. All
the puppies would be sent out to walk till they are twelve months old
and fit to join the pack. I don’t think there would be any difficulty in
finding either boys or farmers to walk the puppies, and a small challenge
cup could be given, as in other packs, for the hound best walked. Thus
a good entry could be made, and the old hounds drafted. Of course, to
get a good and well-bred pack would take about twelve years; but we all
hope at some future time or other to see the E.C.H. entered in the stud
book, and to see the first prize at Peterborough won by a hound belonging
to the E.C.H. There is no reason why all this should not take place,
provided a good kennelman is kept, and the Master devotes heart and soul
to his hounds, and is careful to get good fresh blood in the pack.

If all this be taken into consideration, I am sure you will find that
as good sport is shown by the smaller and level pack, and as many hares
killed.

Beckford says: “You will find nothing so essential to your sport as that
your hounds should run well together; nor can this end be better attained
than by confining yourself, as near as you can, to those of the same
sort, viz. size and shape. A great excellence in a pack of hounds is the
head they carry; and that pack be said to go the fastest that can run
10 miles with the fewest checks. As a good level pack at a check should
spread like a rocket, what can be finer than a pack like the horses of
the sun, ‘all abreast’?”

I hope you will excuse me, Mr. Editor, for trespassing on your valuable
space at such a length, but these are only suggestions on my part, and I
hope the matter will be thoroughly sifted and discussed; and let us hope
that some authority on the subject will put forth his views. Let your
hounds be

              “Facies non omnibus una,
    Nec diversa tamen, qualem decet esse sonorum.”




APPENDIX IV.

LETTER FROM A MASTER OF HOUNDS OF FORTY YEARS’ EXPERIENCE.

_Behaviour and Control of Field._


When a Master is hunting his own hounds it is very advisable to have
either a joint Master, or a field Master, whose business it is to keep
the field well away from huntsman and hounds when they come to a check.
The field should remember that to press hounds at a check is most
disastrous to sport, and they should keep well away and wait till hounds
hit off the line, and certainly not follow the huntsman about when he is
making a cast. In hare hunting this is most essential, as a hare will
often run back on its own line or squat; if the field is walking about on
the line it is impossible for hounds to pick it up. The huntsman should
know to a few yards where the hounds last had the line, and the moment
that he says “Hold hard” everyone should stop and stand perfectly still
and not talk: the least thing will get hounds’ heads up, and once up it
takes time to get them down again. Another thing, never halloo a hare; if
any one sees a hare, hold up his cap at the place where he has seen the
hare; if the huntsman does not see him, go to the huntsman and tell him,
1st where the hare was seen, 2nd how long it had been gone, 3rd which
direction it was going in; a minute lost in giving correct information
will often save many minutes in getting hounds properly on the line.




APPENDIX V.

THE USE OF THE HORN.

_By H. H. Howard-Vyse._


With beagles the horn should be used sparingly, and, except at a kill,
for one purpose only, to call hounds to one. There is little more to be
said except that the sound of the horn carries a very short distance,
and that it should therefore be blown with all the strength that the
huntsman’s lungs permit. To call hounds to one when drawing or casting, a
short blast is usually employed; to bring them on to the line of a viewed
hare, the note should be a longer one causing more excitement; the same
applies to the occasion of a kill; and, in calling hounds together at the
end of the day, it is well to use a long-drawn-out note with a die-away
tinge in it.




FOOTNOTES


[1] As a matter of fact this is incorrect. The actual number of
subscribers in 1859 was 58.

[2] Purchased at end of season by W. Milner (the late Sir W. Milner).

[3] How interesting to hear of troubles with farmers nearly sixty years
ago! The author can definitely state that to-day (season 1921-22) only
one field is forbidden to the E.C.H.

[4] _Eton College Chronicle._

[5] Mistake for Hon. G. Heathcote-Drummond-Willoughby. Lord C.
Cavendish-Bentinck was first whip next year (1887).

[6] Notable exceptions were G. W. Barclay (killed in the War), son of Mr.
E. E. Barclay, M.F.H. the Puckeridge, and K. S. M. Gladstone, who had had
a pack of his own in Essex before he went to Eton. These two Masters of
the E.C.H. undoubtedly did a very great deal to bring the pack to a high
standard.

[7] To-day the season begins, subject to the Head Master’s permission, on
Oct. 15th.

[8] The late Mr. F. H. Rawlins.

[9] Trinity Foot Beagles.

[10] Since Barnett-Barker’s days the subscription has been lowered to £1
10s.

[11] Perhaps this is a fitting place to mention that Bambridge & Co. by
Windsor Bridge set up both masks and pads extremely well.

[12] The record.


                               ETON COLLEGE
            PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE, BALLANTYNE AND CO., LTD.
                           AT THE SAVILE PRESS



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74445 ***
